^kmtmmM 


Wl^pT  \  DITglfp 


-fc 


^ 


Illustrated  Catalogue 


LAWN    TENNIS,      CRICKET,       BASE    BALL,         ]< 
BICYCLES,  jj 

]Jj|     FISHING    TACKLE,        CAMPING    OUTFITS,     ^jjj 
DOG    COLLARS, 
POLO    GOODS, 

GYMNASIUM    GOODS, 

Etc.,  Etc. 


0  «  s 

-t-^  -l^>  r-H 

2  ft  c3 

cfi  O  <v> 

3  OS 


580    Washington   Street, 


TO    OUR   PATRONS. 


We  trust  that  this,  our  Annual  Illustrated  Catalogue,  will 
prove  acceptable  and  of  service  to  all  whom  may  receive  it ;  and 
that  they  will  preserve  it  for  reference  if  interested  in  its  contents, 
if  not,  they  will  oblige  us  by  handing  it  to  some  friend. 

"Pi'ices  in  this  Catalogue  cancel  all  previous  Quotations. 

This  Catalogue  will  be  mailed  to  any  Address  upon  Receipt  of  5  Cents. 


HOW    TO    ORDER. 

Address  your  Letter  Carefully. 

Write  your  Name  and  Address  Distinctly. 

Mention  Amount  of  Money  you  Enclose. 

We  will  accept  U.  S.  Postage  Stamps  in  Payment  for  Ooods  to  the 
Amount  of  $1.00,  but  Cannot  use  Foreign  Stamps.  The  safest  modes  of 
Remitting  Money  are  by  Express,  Draft,  Money  Order,  and  Registered  Mail. 


GOODS    SENT    BY    EXPRESS    C.    O.    D. 

When  Goods  are  ordered  sent  by  Express,  and  Bill  to  be  Collected  on  Delivery,  the 
charges  for  returning  Money  to  us  will  invariably  be  added  to  the  Bill.  Strangers  residing  at 
long  distances  from  Boston  will  be  required  to  remit  25  per  cent,  of  the  amount  of  their  order, 
as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith,  and  the  balance  will  be  collected  on  Delivery  of  Goods.  If  goods 
are  not  taken  we  will  refund  money,  less  Express  Charges,  both  ways. 


GOODS    BY    MAIL. 

Most  Goods  in  our  Catalogue  can  be  sent  by  mail  as  merchandise,  at  the  rate  of  one 
cent  per  ounce.  Customers  ordering  goods  by  mail  must  enclose  stamps  for  postage,  unless 
goods  are  advertised  post-paid  in  Catalogue. 

Glass,  Liquid,  or  Sharp-Pointed  Tools  are  Unmailable. 

Packages  over  four  pounds  in  weight,  or  more  than  thirty-six  inches  long,  are  Unmailable. 

We  are  not  responsible  for  goods  sent  by  Mail  not  Registered. 

Merchandise  Packages  can  be  Registered  for  10  cents  each. 

Goods  ordered  to  be  left  at  depots  are  at  purchasers'  risk,  as  no  receipts  are  given. 


TERMS: 

Our   Terms  are    CASH.     No    Goods  sent  by  Mail  unless   Payment  Accompanies  Order. 


THE  HENRY  FRANCIS  du  PONT 

WINTERTHUR  MUSEUM 

LIBRARIES 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

Lyrasis  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/wrightOOwrig 


Wright  &  Ditson's 

ANNUAL 

Illustrated  Catalogue 


CONTAINING 


PRICES  and  DESCRIPTIONS 


BASE   BALL,  BICYCLES, 

FOOT   BALL,  FISHING   TACKLE, 

LAWN    TENNIS,  CAMPING  OUTFITS, 

CRICKET,  BATHING  SUITS, 

POLO,  GYMNASIUM    GOODS, 

LACROSSE,  ROLLER    SKATES, 

CROQUET,  DOG    COLLARS, 

ARCHERY,  REVOLVERS, 

ETC.,    ETC. 


PUBLISHED    BY 

"W-ZE^IO-HIT     &     IDITSOIsT, 

580  WASHINGTON   STREET, 

BOSTON,    MASS. 


Copyright,  1884, 

BY 

WRIGHT  &  DITSON 


Cashman,  Keating  &  Co.,   Printers, 

603  Washington  Street, 

Boston,  Mass. 


BASE  BALL  GOODS. 


BASE    BALLS. 

Our  League  and  Union  Association  Balls  are  carefully  made  of  the  very  best  materials  by 
competent  workmen,  and  after  having  been  thoroughly  tested  were  judged  to  be  equal,  if  not  superior 
to  any  ball  in  the  market.  They  are  warranted  to  be  regulation  size  and  weight  and  are  especially 
adapted  for  match  games. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S 

REGULATION 

LEAGUE  BALL. 

Double  Cover. 

Adopted  by  the  following :  — - 

American  College  Base  Ball  Asso- 
ciation, State  Base  Ball  Association 
of  Massachusetts,  Boston  Commercial 
Base-Ball  Association  and  Maine 
College  League, 


I  hereby  certify  that  Wright  &  Ditson's  Base  Ball,  manufactured  by  Messrs.  Wright  &  Ditson 
of  Boston,  Mass.,  has  been  adopted  as  the  official  ball  of  the  American  College  Base  Ball  Associa- 
tion and  must  be  used  in  all  games  played  by  the  Clubs  of  this  Association. 

G.  W.  WADSWORTH, 
Secretary  American  College  Base  Ball  Association. 


I  hereby  certify  that  the  State  Base  Ball  Association  of  Massachusetts,  has  adopted  the  Wright  & 
Ditson  Ball  as  the  Official  Ball  of  the  Association  and  must  be  used  in  all  games  played  by  the  Clubs 
in  this  Association  during  1884. 

ROBERT  B.    EDES, 

Secretary  Stale  Association. 
Prick       »•.»..»•.*.»■*..»•..».»•        #1*50  each;  #15.00  per  doz. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S 


UNION 


■  ASSOCIATION  BALL 


Double  Cover. 

Adopted   by  the   Union    Association 
of  Base  Ball  Clubs. 


I  hereby  certify  that  the  Wright  &  Ditson  Ball,  of  Boston,  Mass.,  has  been  adopted  as  the 
Official  Ball  of  the  Union  Association  and  must  be  used*  in  all  games  played  by  Association  Clubs 
during  1884. 

WM.  WARREN   WHITE, 

Secretary. 
Price     --. $1.50  each;    $15.00  per  doz. 

Our  League  and  Union  Association  Balls  are  branded  same  as  cuts,  wrapped  in  tin  foil,  put  up 
in  separate  boxes  and  sealed  to  prevent  being  handled  before  opened  for  play. 


No.  3. 

4 

5 
6 

7 
S 

9 

10 
1 1 
12 
1 


BASE    BALLS. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Gut  Stitched  Regulation       *        - 

"  '•       Professional  Dead 

"  "       Amateur  Dead  - 

"  "       American  Club,  Gold  Stamp 

"  "       King  of  the  Diamond, 

"  "       Grand  Duke, 

"  "       Boys'  Favorite, 

"  "      Eureka,  ' 

"       Rattler, 

"  "      The  Boss, 

"      Nickel, 
All  Balls  costing  25  cents  or  over  sent  by  mail,  post  pa 


d,  on  receipt  of  price. 


Each. 
»i.5o 

1.25 

1. 00 

•75 
•50 
<35 

•25 
,20 

•15 
.10 

.os 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BASE-BALL   BATS. 

Our  Bats  are  made  from  sun-dried  wood,  hand  turned  and  patterned  after  models  now  in  use  by 
our  leading  professional  and  amateur  players.  Orders  received  from  clubs  or  individuals  will  receive 
every  attention  in  regard  to  length,  weight,  model  and  quality  desired. 

-    :  iSlllillllil  ITOM^llll 

No.  I.     Second  Growth  Ash,  Special  Model,  Polished  -  75c.  each;  $7.50  per  doz. 


No.  2.     Polished  Ash 
No.  3.  "       Cherry 


35c.  each;    $3.00  per  doz. 
40c.     "  4.00  " 


No.  4.     Polished  Willow  (each  one  in  paper  bag) 


50c.  each;  $5.00 per  doz. 


No.  5.     Polished  Basswood 


25c.  each;   $2.75  per  doz. 


PLAIN   ASH   AND    BASSWOOD    BATS. 

No.  6.     Men's  Selected  Ash,  lengths  from  36  to  40  inches  • 

No.  7.     Men's  Selected  Basswood,  lengths  from  36  to  40  inches 

No.  8.     Boys'  Ash,  28  to  34  inches       -.-._.... 

No.  c>._  Boys'  Basswood,  28  to  34  inches 

Orders  for  one-half  dozen  bats  will  be  filled  at  dozen  rates. 


Each.  Per  Doz. 

$  .25  #2.50 

.20  2.00 

.15  1.50 

.15  I.50 


BASE-BALL    BAT    BAGS. 


Strong  Canvas,  leather  ends,  holds  1  dozen  bats 


All  Leather  Bat  Bags  made  to  older  to  hold  1  and  2  dozen  bats,  #15.00  and  $20.00. 


53-50 
5.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BASES. 

Made  of  strong  sail  duck,  with  best  leather  strap  fastenings,  in  accord- 
ance with  new  rules. 
.jg|i     Price,  complete,  with  straps  and  rings,  per  set  -        -        $3.50 

IS  SSIT^  Marble  or  Iron  Home  Plates  made  to  order. 


CATCHERS  MASKS,  GLOVES,  ETC. 


Abdomen  Mask. 


Catcher's  Gloves. 


Catcher's  Mask. 


OPEN    SIGHT    CATCHER'S   MASK. 

During  the  past  winter  we  have  made  numerous  improvements  on  our  Catcher's  Masks,  espe- 
cially the  professional  extra  heavy,  which  has  proved  the  favorite  with  all  leading  catchers  throughout 
the  country.  No  catcher  should  play  behind  the  bat  without  one  as  they  are  a  sure  protection  for  the 
face  and  will  give  the  player  confidence. 

Each- 

No.   r.     Professional,  extra  heavy,  square  sight    .•••••--•        $4.00 

"      2.     Amateur,  heavy  •-----.--.---  3.00 

"      3.     Boys'       .------- -  2.00 

CATCHER'S    GLOVES. 

Our  Open-Back  Catcher's  Gloves  are  made  from  thick  buckskin,  hand  sewed  and  well 
padded.  No  better  glove  made.  They  have  been  severely  tested  by  the  leading  catchers  of  the 
Boston,  Providence  and  other  League  Clubs  ;  also  Harvard,  Brown,  Princeton,  Yale  and  Dartmouth 

Colleges. 

Per  Pair. 

No.  1.     Extra  Heavy  Padded  Buckskin         ---.--«---  #3.00 

"     2.     Well  Padded  Buckskin         ..--.------  2.co 

M     3.     Hair-Padded  Deerskin    -        -        - -  1.50 

"     4.     Boys'  Light  Buck           -                  -  i.co 

"     5.     Extra  Heavy  Padded  Gloves,  to  cover  all  of  left  hand,  each    -----  2.00 

"     6.    One  Glove  No.  1  and  one  No.  5   making  pair      -                                             -        -  3.50 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


ABDOMEN    MASK. 

Made  of  wire  similar  to  the  Face  Mask  and  as  much  of  a 
needed  protector  as  the  mask.  It  can  be  worn  without  inter- 
fering with  your  play  and  all  catchers  who  have  used  it  speak 
in  its  praise.     (See  cut,  page  4.) 


Made  of  Strong  Wire  and  Padded,  each     - 


52.50 


CATCHER'S    BREAST    PROTECTOR. 

This  Protector  is  so  made  as  to  hang  from  the  neck,  on  the 
inside  of  the  shirt,  and  can  be  worn  with  comfort.  It  is  well 
padded  and  so  arranged  as  to  cover  the  breast,  and  will  save 
the  catcher  from  being  hurt  from  sharp  tips  when  playing 
under  the  bat. 


Price 


$2.00 


Catchers'  Breast  Protector. 

PRIZE   BALLS   AND    BATS. 


Heavy  Silver-Plated  Prize  Ball,  same  as  cut,  regulation  size,  with  Morocco  case,  satin  lined,  $8.00 
Heavy  Silver-Plated  Prize  Ball,  engraved  to  represent  a  perfect  stitched  ball  regulation  size 

and  weight     ----_,.- __  5.00 

Prize  Bat  of  Polished  Solid  Rosewood,  nicely  engraved  silver-plated  bands  and  inscription 

plate,  in  Morocco  case,  satin  lined,  same  as  above  cut $25.00 

(With  Silver-Plated  Ball,  $5  00  extra.) 

Solid  Rosewood  Bat,  not  mounted -...-400 

"             "    with  one  band,  no  plate      ---------  7.00 

"            "     with  two  bands       -----_...._  10.00 

"            "     with  engraved  inscription  plate 12.00 

Engraving  on  Ball  or  Bat,  plain,  3c.  per  letter ;  fancy      --------  .06 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


SILK    ELASTICS    FOR    SPRAINS,    SWELLINGS  AND  WEAK   JOINTS. 


These  Elastics  are  very  popular 
among  athletes  generally,  and  great 
benefits  have  been  derived  from  the 
use  of  them,  especially  the  "  Pitcher's 
Elastic,  "  which  has  enabled  pitchers 
to  play  at  times  when  without  it, 
they  would  have  been  disabled. 


Wristlet. 


Pitcher's  Elastic. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    MEASURING. 

For  Wristlet.  —  Around  wrist  at  D  and  E,  and  length  from  D  to  E. 

Pitcher's  Elastic.  — Around  ■asm  at  A,  B,  and  C,  and  length  from  A  to 
C,  at  top  and  bottom  of  arm. 

Stockings,  Knee  Caps,  Anklets,  etc.  —  Measure  around  the  limb 
opposite  the  lines  in  cut.  For  stocking  to  reach  from  i  to  4,  give  the  length 
from  heel  to  4.  For  stocking  to  go  above  the  knee,  give  the  length  from 
heel  to  5,  and  from  5  to  as  high  as  wanted.  Always  follow  the  directions 
and  be  sure  to  give  length. 

Sl^3"  Always  take  measurements  next  to  the  skin. 

We  keep  some  of  the  above  Elastics  in  stock,  but  if  we  do  not  have  the 
size  desired  can  make  it  to  order  in  three  days. 


Pitcher's  Elastic  (see  cut)  ....--. 

Wristlets,  " 

Knee  Caps,  4  to  6,  "       - 

Anklets,  1  to  2,         " - 

Thigh  Elastic,  6  to  8  (see  cut) 

(Prices  for  other  Elastics  on  application.) 
Note.  —  Money  must  accompany  order  for  the  above  goods. 


Each. 

$3.00 

l.5o 

3-5° 
3-5o 
4.00 


CHAMPION    PATENT    PORTABLE   BLACKBOARDS. 
For  Base  Ball  and  Polo  Club  Rooms,  to  post  Records,  etc.,  upon. 

Each. 

Size,  2\  x  3    feet --- $5.00 

"      2ixsi   " 6.00 

"3x4'' 7.00 

COMIC    BASE-BALL   PICTURES. 

We  will  send  by  mail,  upon  receipt  of  6c,  a  set  of  Nine  Comic  Colored  Card  Base  Ball  Pictures, 
showing  the  different  positions  in  Base  Ball. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


FLANNEL   UNIFORMS. 


In  presenting  our  price  list  of  uniforms  this  season,  would  announce  that  we  are  prepared  to 
manufacture  all  kinds  of  uniforms  for  athletic  sports.  At  the  head  of  this  department  we  have 
placed  a  practical  custom  cutter,  who  is  thoroughly  experienced  in  all  the  details  connected  with  the 
manufacture  of  sporting  uniforms,  thereby  enabling  us  to  reduce  former  prices  to  the  lowest  possible 
notch.  Our  list  comprises  the  following  :  Base  Ball,  Lawn  Tennis,  Bicycle,  Cricket,  Yachting, 
Fireman's,  Camping  and  Beach  Uniforms.  Besides  which  we  constantly  keep  on  hand  a  large  stock 
of  Flannel  Shirts  and  Pants,  of  all  styles  and  colors  ;  also  Caps,  Belts,  Stockings,  Shoes,  etc.  We 
can  at  any  time,  cut,  make  and  ship  from  our  store  a  complete  Club  Uniform,  made  in  the  very  best 
manner  possible,  on  four  days'  notice.  But  we  should  prefer  to  have  from  a  week  to  ten  days'  time, 
so  as  to  be  sure  to  have  everything  in  its  proper  place.  We  will  be  pleased  to  send  out  measurement 
blanks,  as  well  as  samples  of  flannel  and  belting,  to  any  address  upon  application. 

Address,  Wright  &  Ditsov, 

580  Washington  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


COMPLETE    BASE-BALL    UNIFORMS. 


No.  XX-     Outfit.     Price,  $15.00  per  Man. 

League  Club  Uniform,  consisting  of  Pants  and  Shirt  of  extra  fine  flannel  made  expressly  for 
our  own  trade.  Extra  quality  Stockings,  Cap  and  Belt,  our  best  Canvas  Shoes,  Steel  Shoe  Plates, 
and  Neckties  to  match  suit. 


No.  1.     Outfit-     Price,  $12.50  per  Man. 

Professional  Club  Uniform,  consisting  of  Shirt  and  Pants  of  good   heavy  twilled  flannel,  first 
quality  Cap  and  Belt,  extra  quality  Stockings.     Our  best  canvas  Shoes  and  Steel  Shoe  Plates. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


No.  2.     Outfit.     Price,  10.00  per  Man. 

Amateur  Club  Uniform,  consisting  of  first  quality  Shirt  and  Pants  of  Talbott  heavy  twilled 
flannel,  first  quality  Cap,  Belt  and  Stockings,  Amateur  Shoes  and  Steel  Shoe  Plates. 

No.  3.     Outfit.     Price,  $8.00  per  Man. 

Second  Quality  Uniform,  consisting  of  second  quality  twilled  flannel  Shirt  and  Pants,  second 
quality  Cap,  Belt  and  Stockings,  Amateur  Shoes  and  Steel  Shoe  Plates. 

No.  4.     Outfit.     Price,  $6.75  per  Man. 

Third  Quality  Uniform,  consisting  of  Shirt  and  Pants  of  heavy  Shaker  flannel  ;  colors,  White, 
Blue,  and  Gray  only.  Third  quality  Cap  and  Stockings,  Union  Web  Belt,  Amateur  Shoes  and  Steel 
Shoe  Plates. 


HOW   TO   MEASURE   FOR   UNIFORMS. 


SHIRT. 

Size  of  collar  worn ;  length   of 
sleeve  from  centre  of  back  to  hand, 
with  the  arm  bent  as  in  cut ;  size 
around  chest ;  length  of  yoke  from 
point  of  shoulder  to  point  of  other 
shoulder,  across  the  back. 
Cap.  —  Size  ordinarily  worn. 
Belt.  —  Size  around  waist. 
Shoes.  —  Size  ordinarily  worn. 
Stockings. — Size  ordinarily  worn. 


PANTS. 

Size  around  waist ;  size  around 
hips  ;  length  of  outside  seam  from 
waist  to  eight  inches  below  the 
knee.  Or,  for  full-length  pants, 
measure  to  the  hollow  of  the  foot, 
just  under  the  instep,  on  both  out- 
side and  inside  seams.  Length  of 
inside  seam  from  crotch  to  eight 
inches  below  the  knee. 


Please  be  particular  and  give  full  instructions  as  to  how  you  want  each  article  made  and  trimmed, 
color  of  trimmings,  style  and  number  of  cap,  whether  pockets  in  pants  or  not,  etc.,  so  there  can  be 
no  chance  of  misunderstanding  your  order.  By  following  these  instructions,  you  will  insure  prompt 
attention,  and  your  order  will  be  filled  perfectly. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BASE-BALL   HATS   AND   CAPS. 


No.  2.     League  Cap. 


No.  3.     Amateur  Cap. 


No.  o.     College  Hat. 


Boston  Club  Cap. 


Jockey  Cap. 


The  above  cuts  show  the  principal  styles  of  Hats  and  Caps  now  in  use.  Parties  ordering  will 
please  give  number  of  hat  or  cap  wanted,  size  worn  and  full  particulars  about  quality  and  color. 
We  keep  solid  colors  only,  as  there  are  so  many  colors  and  combination  of  colors  required  that  it 
would  be  impossible  to  keep  them  all.  We  therefore  make  all  special  styles  to  order,  and  require 
from  one  to  two  days'  time  to  make  them  up. 


No.  o.  College  Hat        - 

1.  Professional  League  Cap,  extra  quality     - 

2.  Trimmed  League  Cap         - 

3.  Amateur  Cap  --..... 

4.  Boston  Club  Cap         ...... 

5.  Boys',  Red  and  White  and  Blue  and  White  only    - 

6.  Jockey  Style  Base-Ball  Cap         .... 

7.  Jockey  Riding  Caps,  Leather  Visor        ... 


First 

Quality. 

Second  Quality. 

£ach. 

Per  doz. 

Each. 

Per  doz. 

5l.50 

$iS.oo 

$i 

•25 

$12.00 

I. OO 

IO.OO 

•75 

8.00 

.60 

7.OO 

•75 

S.00 

.60 

7.OO 

•75 

8.00 

.60 
•25 

7.OO 
3.OO 

•75 

8.00 

.60 

7. CO 

1.50 

15.00 

IO 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BASE-BALL   SHOES. 

A 

No.  i.     French  Calf.  No.  2.     Professional.  No.  3.     Amateur. 

Our  Base-Ball  Shoes,  both  calfskin  and  canvas,  are  made  from  strictly  first-class  stock.     The 
former  is  largely  used  by  professional  and  college  players  and  is  also  very  popular  among  cricketers. 

Per  Pair. 

No.  1.     College,  Best  French  Calf #6.00 

"     2.     Professional,  Extra  Heavy  Canvas        ._----.--  3.00 

"     3.     Amateur,  Strong  Canvas  - 1.75 

"     4.     Boys',  Thick  Soles i-5° 

In  ordering  give  size  of  shoe  worn.     Cricket,  Lawn  Tennis  and  Boating  Shoes  find  prices,  etc.,  in 
their  departments. 

SAFETY    STEEL    BASE-BALL 
SPIKE. 

This  spike,  during  past  seasons,  has  proved  to 

be  the  spike,  and  is  now  in  general  use.     They 

f    are  made  of  the  best  of  steel,  with  screws  ex- 

rRIGHT  &  DITS0U'>^^^^J*^      pressly  to  fasten  them  on.     Place  them  \\  inches 

J^'  from  the  end  of  the  shoe.     Each  pair  is  put  up 

ready  for  use,  in  a  small  paper  bag. 

Price,  25  cents  per  pair  ;  per  dozen  pairs,  $2.50. 

All  our  Spikes  are  stamped  as  above  cut.    Sent 

by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

Cricket  Spikes,  Brass,  with  screws,  per  set,    50c. 

"  "       Malleable  Iron,  with  screws, 

per  set        ..----        25c. 


NEW    STYLE    AMATEUR    BASE-BALL 
SPIKE. 

This  spike  can  be  put  on  the  shoe  or  taken  0% 
instantly,  and  is  very  convenient  for  gentlemen  who 
wish  to  play  Base  Ball  and  Cricket  at  a  moment's  no- 
tice. Will  not  mar  the  shoe.  Can  be  carried  in  the 
vest    pocket   and  used  as   an  ice  creeper  if  desired. 


Price,  per  pair,  by  mail 


35c-       IS 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


ii 


BASE-BALL   STOCKINGS. 

We  carry  in  stock  a  large  assortment  of  Woollen  Stockings  which  we 
manufacture  expressly  for  our  trade,  they  have  given  the  very  best  of  satis" 
faction  to  clubs  who  have  used  them.  They  are  made  of  extra  quality  yarns, 
and  are  of  good  length,  coming  up  above  the  knee.  The  colors  we  keep  in 
stock  are  as  follows:  Red,  Blue,  Gray,  Brown,  Black,  and  Green.  Any 
different  colors  ordered,  would  require  a  little  more  time  and  the  additional 
cost  of  having  them  dyed. 

We  would  call  special  attention  to  our  No.  I  Stocking,  which  is  largely 
used  by  the  Harvard  and  other  Foot-Ball  and  Base-Ball  Teams.  It  is  made 
extra  strong  and  of  very  fine  material,  making  it  desirable  to  any  one  who 
requires  a  strong^  durable  article. 


No.  2.  Heavy  English  Ribbed      - 

"     I.  Wright  &  Ditson's  Extra  Heavy  Athletic 
"     3.  "  "  Heavy  Athletic      - 

"    4.  "  "         Medium      " 

BELTS. 


Per  Pair.  Per  Doz. 

$2.00  $2I.OO 

2.00  2I.OO 

1. 00  IO.OO 

■  5°  5°° 


ENGLISH    WORSTED   WEB    BELTS 

In  the  following  colors :  White,  Blue,  Red.  Green,  and  Brown  ;  solid  white  centre,  with  Blue,  Red, 
Brown,  and  Green  edges;  Red  and  Blue  centres  with  White  edges.  All  mounted  with  best  quality 
leather. 

Each.         Per  Doz. 
Single  Buckle         _--___.._..-.         50c.  $5.00 

Double      "  -----_..__--_  75c  l-^o 

CAPTAINS'  BELTS,  WITH  WORD  CAPTAIN  WOVEN  IN. 

Each. 
White  Centre,  Red  Edges      ------.-.-__.        $1.00 

"  "       Blue  Edges  --_----.-...  1#co 


12 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


AMERICAN    WEB    BELTS. 

Mounted  with  Strong  Leather. 

Single  Buckle,  Solid  Colors       ---------- 

"  "       Fancy  Stripes,  Red,  White  and  Blue,  Blue  and  White,  etc. 

Base-Ball  Players'  Liniment.     Price,  per  bottle    ------ 

Good  for  Sprains,  Bruises,  etc. 
Sliding  Pad,  for  Base-Ball  Player  to  wear  when  "  sliding  in  "  to  a  base.     Each 


Each.    Per  Doz. 
25c. 
25c. 


S2.50 

2.50 

•5° 

I.50 


Notice.  —  Orders  from  Clubs  for  one-half  dozen  Balls,  Bats,  Belts,  Caps,  Stockings,  etc.,  will 
be  filled  at  dozen  rates.  Information  in  regard  to  goods  not  mentioned  in  this  list,  will  be  furnished 
on  application. 


AUTOMATIC    UMPIRE'S   ASSISTANT. 

It  is  in  use  by  all  the  prominent  umpires.  By  touch" 
ing  the  knob  at  the  top  (as  shown  in  cut),  the  number 
of  balls  called  from  1  to  7  are  registered,  and  so  remain  until 
the  knob  is  touched  again.  The  small  hand  in  the  centre 
serves  to  record  the  number  of  strikes  on  the  batter. 


Price,  by  mail 


50  cents  each. 


BASE-BALL    SCORE    BOOKS. 


HARRY   WRIGHT'S    CLUB   SCORE    BOOK 


Is  the  most  improved  Score  Book  yet  introduced,  being  so  arranged  that  a  game  can  be  kept  very 
complete;  every  Ball  Pitched,  Batted,  Thrown,  Caught,  or  Missed,  can  be  accounted  for  from  the 
beginning  to  the  ending  of  a  game.  It  is  used  by  all  the  leading  base-ball  reporters,  and  no  club 
scorer  should  be  without  one.     Each  and  every  book  is  neatly  and  strongly  bound  in  heavy  covers. 


No.  3. 
"     4- 

"     5 


Book  for  30  Games 
"  60  Games 
"        90  Games 


Each. 

$I.OO 

'•75 
2.50 


We  are  the  official  publishers  of  this  book. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


13 


WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S    LATEST   OFFICIAL   POCKET    SCORE    BOOK 

Will  be  found  one  of  the  best-and  most  complete  books  for  t  coring  a  game  in  full. 

Each. 
No.  1.      7  Games,  paper  cover      ------------        10c. 

"     2.     22       "        board  cover  -----------  25c. 

Score  Cards,  printed  on  board,  to  order,  $3.25  per  100,  5c.  each,  sample  sent  by  mail.  Any 
above  Score  Books  sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price. 

THE  LEAGUE  SCHEDULE  AND  GAME  BOOK. 

For  Season  of  1884. 

It  is  a  well  arranged  and  compact  little  book.  Gives  the  names  of  players  and  umpires 
engaged  by  League  clubs,  with  a  space  for  keeping  runs,  base  hits,  and  errors  of  each  club  in  each 
game.     It  is  a  neat  little  pocket  reference.  Price,  per  book,  15  cents,  by  mail. 


BOOK  ON  BATTING  AND  PITCHING  WITH    ATTITUDES 


BATTING   BY 


JOHN   MORRILL 


PITCHING   BY 


Captain  of  Boston  Nine. 


T.   J.   KEEFE 


Pitcher  of  Metropolitan  Club. 


This  book  will  be  found  to  be  both  interesting  and  instructive,  especially 
to  young  players,  who  are  anxious  to  become  good  batters  and  pitchers.  The 
instructions,  with  attitudes,  could  not  be  given  by  two  more  experienced 
players  than  ones  named,  as  they  are  both  self-made  and  always  end  their 
season's  work  with  good  records. 


Price,  by  mail 


30c. 


BASE-BALL  GUIDES   FOR   1884. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Guide  contains  the  playing  rules  of  the  Union  Association,  with  batting 
and  fielding  records  for  1883,  of  the  nine  best  men  in  the  League  and  American  Associations. 
Championship  record  for  1883  of  the  League,  American  Association,  Colleges,  Massachusetts  State 
Association,  and  Commercial  Clubs,  of  Boston.  Schedules  for  1884  of  the  League,  American  Asso- 
ciation, Union  Association,  and  College  Clubs,  with  Items  and  Hints  of  interest.  This  will  be  found 
a  good  book  for  reference. 


Price,  by  mail 


loc. 


Spalding's  Base-Baa  Guide  for  1884.     Price 


14 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


FIREMEN'S   UNIFORMS. 

We  are  giving  special  attention  to  this  branch  of  our 
uniform  business,  and  now  make,  without  doubt,  the 
finest  line  of  Firemen's  Shirts  and  Pants  ever  put  on 
the  market. 

Firemen's  Parade  Shirts,  made  of  blue,  white,  gray 
or  red  flannel,  handsomely  trimmed  with  letter  on 
shield  -.-_-_  per  doz.  $36.00 
Same  as  above,  not  trimmed         -         -  "  33-00 

Regulation  Navy  Blue  Shirts        -  "         36.00 


FIREMEN'S    RUNNING   SUITS. 

These  suits  are  for  use  at  tournaments  and  exhibitions, 
as  well  as  for  practice  and  general  training.  We  make 
these  goods  up  in  any  style,  and  in  worsted  in  any 
color,  or  in  any  combination  of  colors.  They  fit  per- 
fectly tight,  and  are  especially  adapted  for  running,  as 
there  is  nothing  to  catch  any  superfluous  wind,  and  they 
leave  the  runner  perfectly  free  for  action. 

Each. 
Cotton  Knee  Tights,  light  weight,  white  and  flesh 

color  only        -        -        -        -         -        -        -    $  »75 

Cotton    Shirts,  one-quarter  sleeve,  light  weight, 

white  and  flesh  color  only    -  .75 

Cotton  Trunks,  per  pair      -----        -75 

Worsted  Shirts,  any  plain  colors,  each   -        -  3.50 

"        Knee  Tights,  any  plain  colors,  per  pair      2.75 
"       Trunks,  any  color  or  colors,  per  pair,  2.00 

Running  Shoes,  with  spikes  in  sole,  and  lace  up 

and  made  very  light  and  neat,  English,  per  pair,     6.00 
American,  per  pair     ------       3.00 

$3^*  Estimates  cheerfully  furnished  on  any  kind  of 
Firemen's  Equipments. 


JOCKEY    STRAPS    AND    SUSPENSORIES. 

No  ball  player  should  ever  commence  a  game  without  taking  proper  precaution  against  rupture. 
The  above  articles  are  designed  to  meet  the  demand  for  an  veffectual  protection,  thus  supplying  a 

long-felt  want.  _    . 

&  Each. 

* 50 

'         ■         •         •         •  -75 

5° 

.7 


Jockey  Strap,  good  quality,  by  mail .... 

"  "        chamois  lined,      " .... 

Suspensory,  cotton,  " 

silk,  " 

AMERICAN  COLLEGE  ASSOCIATION  BASE-BALL  GUIDE  FOR  1884. 

Wright  &  Ditson,  Official  Publishers.    Price,  by  mail  ....         10c.  each 


; 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


15 


POLO  OUTFITS. 


SHIN    GUARD. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Regulation  Polo  Stick  and  Ball,  adopted  by  the  New  England  League 
of  Polo  Clubs,  to  be  used  in  all  games  contested  by  clubs  of  this  League. 


REGULATION    STICKS, 


Made  by  hand  of  well-seasoned  wood,  regulation  size  and  weight     •    Each,     75c.     per  doz.,  $7.50 

Regulation  Balls      - "      1.00  10.00 

Shin  Guards,  per  pair,  canvas  crvered       .*-.»•*  ■      »      1,25       leather,  1. 75 

Polo  Goals       .        .        .        .        .        .        *        •        »        *        *        •        -    per  set  of  four,  4x0 

Polo  Flags         .«.»*«,.*••        per  set  of  four,  $2.50    wiih  initial,  3.00 

Polo  Stick  Bags,  made  of  canvas,  to  hold  t  doz.        •.•*.»***-  2.50 

Polo  Whistles        ..*...-••••-.---  .30 

Polo  Rules,  by  mail            •*•••««•••«-•-  .05 

Abdomen  Protectors  for  Goal   Tender* 2.50 

Jockey  Straps      *                         •    plain,   50c.     Chamois  lined.  .75 


i6 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


POLO     UNIFORMS. 


^Q~ 


WORSTED  CAP. 


FLANNEL  CAP. 


WORSTED  JERSEY. 


WORSTED  KNEE  TIGHTS. 


We  manufacture  all  of  our  Polo  Uniforms,  both  Worsted  and  Flannel,  and  always  keep  a 
assortment  of  ordinary  colors  in  stock.  Special  Club  Outfits  made  to  order  in  from  five  to 
days. 

Worsted  Jerseys,  plain  colors      -         --.....---    each,     , 

"  "        with  stripes  or   letter  on   breast         ......  " 

"        Knee  Tights,  plain  colors,       -.-.......       per  pair, 

"  "         "       striped  top  and  bottom         -.-..--" 

"         Polo  Caps,  plain  colors,  with  or  without  stripe     ....         -  each, 

Flannel  Shirts,  gray,  white,  &c.  --..--..._-  each* 

"      Pants       "  "  .»--....._     per  pair, 

"      Polo  Caps,  gray,  white,  &c.  -        ■        -        -        •        -        -    per  doz.  $8.00,  each 

Woollen  Stockings  (see  Base  Ball  Goods)      -        -        -  per  pair,  50c,  $1.00  and 


eight 

$4.00 
4-25 

2-75 
3.00 

1. 00 

3.00 

2.50 

•75 
2.00 


COMPLETE    UNIFORMS    FOR    CLUBS. 


WORSTED ;  consisting  of  Jersey  with  one  letter 
on  breast,  Knee  Tights,  plain  colors,  Cap,[with  of 
without  stripe,  Stockings  No.  3  fine  quality, 


Price  per  Uniform, 


j.  00. 


Flannel;  consisting  of  Shirt  with  one  letter 
on  breast,  Pants,  Cap,  Stockings  No.  3  fine  qual- 
ity, Double  Buckle  Belt. 


Price  per  Uniform, 


$8.00. 


Will  allow  a  discount  to  Clubs  ordering  six  or  more  complete  uniforms. 

When  ordering  please  g'v-  full  instructions  in  regard  to  colors,  measurements,  &c. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


17 


ROLLER    SKATES. 

"VINEYARD"  ALL  CLAMP  CLUB  SKATE. 


Sizes  -  -  -  8  in.  to  12  in. 
This  skate  is  the  best  yet  produced,  and  is  particularly  sought  after  by  both  gentlemen  and 
ladies  who  object  to  straps.  Used  by  all  the  best  skaters  and  polo  players,  by  whom  it  is  highly 
endorsed  as  being  the  only  successful  All  Clamp  Roller  Skate  ever  placed  upon  the  market.  We 
cannot  say  too  much  in  its  favor,  and  those  who  have  tried  it  can  well  appreciate  its  value.  The 
wheels  are  hung  upon  the  celebrated  C  hanger,  by  which  the  skate  may  describe  all  circles  with  the 
greatest  ease.     Highly  polished  and  heavily  nickel-plated. 

Price       -----_-__---        $6.00. 


"VINEYARD"  STRAP  AND  CLAMP  SKATE. 


Ladies'  Sizes,  from  7  to  gl  inches. 
Gents'  Sizes,  from  10  to  11+  inches. 
The  above  cut  represents  the  New  Half  Clamped  and  Heel  Strapped  Roller  Skate,  with  Nickel- 
plated  Steel  Top,  Heel  Band  and  Plate.     This  skate  is  very  much  sought  for  by  those  having  tender 
feet  and  requiring  a  support  for  the  ankle. 

It  is  much  preferred  by  expert  skaters,  because  of  its  lightness,  and  the  neat  appearance  it 
presents  on  the  foot.  The  mechanism  of  the  running  parts  is  the  same  as  that  of  Vineyard  All 
Clamp,  with  Clamped  Toe  and  Strapped  Heel.  This  pattern  is  very  much  admired  by  ladies,  and 
its  use  is  becoming  very  general. 

Price  __-_ $6.00 


i8 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


"VINEYARD"    A.    SKATE. 


Sizes         -        -        -        6£  to  12  inches.     """^ 

The  materials  comprising  the  construction  of  this  Skate  are  of  the  very  best,  and  thoroughly 
tested  in  their  manufacture. 

These  Skates  have  Steel  Axles,  Boxwood  Rolls,  Ebonized  Woods,  and  Patent  Buckle  Straps,  all 
of  selected  stock. 

This  is  the  Skate  in  general  use  in  all  the  rinks  throughout  the  country. 

Price        -----------       $4.50. 

PARK    ROLLER   SKATE. 


Sizes  7  inches  to  11^  inches. 

The  Roller  Skate  represented  by  the  above  cut  is  manufactured  of  the  best  material,  and 
nicely  finished  in  Ebonized  Wood,  with  Boxwood  Rolls,  Strapped  complete  with  Patent  Buckles, 
Nickel-plated  Heel  Band,  Steel  Axles,  and  Malleable  Iron  Castings,  having  bearings  one  inch  in 
length,  which  effectually  prevents  the  wearing  out  by  constant  friction  as  is  the  case  with  other  low- 
priced  Roller  Skates.  The  axles  revolve  in  the  hanger  bearings,  and  the  wheels  revolve  on  the  axles, 
thus  doing  away  with  the  friction  that  is  common  with  other  Roller  Skates.  A  patent  for  these  axles, 
and  bearings  on  Roller  Skates,  was  granted  April  26,  1881.  Keep  bearings  well  oiled.  Castor  oil  is 
the  best. 

Price $1.75. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  19 


SKATERS,    ATTENTION  !      POLO   PLAYERS, 
ATTENTION  ! 


USE  BALLUE'S   PATENT  CORK   ROLLER. 


THE  ONLY  PERFECT  SKATE  ROLLER  MANUFACTURED. 


Special  Prices  to  Rinks  and  Dealers. 

We  are  agents  for  this  celebrated  Roller,  in  which  we  feel  a  just  pride  in  placing  before  the 
public.  It  is  the  lightest  and  best  roller  in  the  world,  being  so  constructed  as  not  to  slip  or  make  a 
noise  upon  the  floor.  During  the  few  months  this  roller  has  been  before  the  skating  world  it  has  met 
with  every  success  possible,  and  is  now  the  favorite  with  all  skaters  as  well  as  polo  players.  It  is 
constructed  as  follows  :  A  solid  piece  of  wood  is  first  turned  out  by  hand,  with  a  groove  in  the  centre 
the  axle  hole  is  then  drilled  and  the  cork,  after  being  subjected  to  a  chemical  process  to  make  it  tough 
and  flexible,  is  then  compressed  and  cemented  into  the  groove.  After  drying  the  wheel  is  placed 
upon  an  arbor,  trued  and  polished. 

Notwithstanding  the  lightness  of  the  materials,  this  Roller  will  last  much  longer  than  solid  box- 
wood, owing  to  the  spongy  nature  of  the  cork. 

Every   Roller   Warranted. 

Per  Set. 
No.  1.    Maple  Wheel,  Boxwood  Bushed,  i  inch  cork  -        -        -        -         -         -        .         $.8<; 

2.    Solid  Bftxwood,  £  inch  cork        -------._„  x  oq 

5-  t  ."."*"""-  1. 00 

4.  Polo,  Solid  Boxwood,  J  inch  cork  --------  I  OQ 

5.  Solid  Boxwood.  Brass  Bushed,  i  inch  cork       --------  x  c0 

6.  Racing,  Solid  Boxwood,  two  rows  of  cork  -------  l  2- 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  10  cts.  extra. 

In  ordering  state  size  and  make  of  skate  for  which  they  are  wanted.     Special  sizes  made  to  order. 

PLAIN    ROLLERS. 

Best  Boxwood  Rollers  --■-.-:---        40c.  per  set  ;  by  mail,  50c.  per  set. 

GOLD    PLATED    SCARF-  PINS. 

Winslow's  A.  C.  Skate       ----------  By  mail,  each,     50c. 

Crossed  Polo  Stick  and  Ball "  "75c 

INSTRUCTION  BOOK  ON  ROLLER  SKATING,  etc. 

Roller  Skating,  its  Origin  and  History,  Theory  and  Methods  of  Practice,  Names  and  Descrip- 
tions of  Movements  to  be  Learned  in  Plain  and  Fancy  Skating,  Figure  and  Combination  Skating, 
also  Records  of  Fast  Skating  and  Rules,  Regulations  and  Descriptions  of  the  Game  of  Polo  on  Skates. 
The  only  book  of  the  kind  published,  and  indispensable  to  all  Skaters  and  Polo  Players,  who  by  a 
little  attention  can  master  all  the  difficult  movements  upon  the  little  wheels. 

Pkice,  by  mail 35c. 


?o 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


POPULAR  ROLLER  SKATE. 


Sizes 


7  in.  to  Ii^  in. 


These  Roller  Skates  are  manufactured  of  the  best  materials,  and  nicely  finished  with  French 
Polished  Beech  Wood  Tops,  strapped  complete,  with  Patent  Buckles,  Boxwood  Wheels,  Steel  Axles, 
and  Nickel-plated  Heel  Bands.  The  wheels  are  hung  to  the  tops  in  a  simple  and  effectual  way. 
The  hangers  have  a  middle  support,  which  adds  much  to  the  strength  and  but  little  to  the  weight. 
This  keeps  the  wheels  apart,  and  makes  a  separate  axle  for  each  wheel.  They  are  "  light  weight," 
perfectly  strong  and  thoroughly  reliable. 

Price  --  _-.-.-•-        $1.00. 

ROLLER  SKATE  BAGS. 

These  bags  are  designed  for  carrying  Roller  Skates,  in  which  they  fit  perfectly,  so  as  not  to  rattle 
or  sustain  injury.  They  are  handsomely  made  and  finished,  and  furnished  with  a  neat  leather  handle 
like  a  hand  bag.  Every  skater  who  owns  his  own  skates  should  have  one,  as  they  are  neat  in  appear- 
ance and  convenient  in  the  extreme. 


No.   I.  Brown  Canvas,  Lined,  Leather  Bound,  with  Pocket  for  oil  can  . 

No.   2.  Brown  Bag  Leather,  Lined  with  Flannel,  Leather  Bound,  with  Pocket  for  oil  can, 
No.  3.  Bridle  Leather,  best  quality,  made  in  Square  form  just  to  fit  the  skates,  with  Pocket 
for  oil  can  .............. 


Shoulder  Straps  for  above  bags 


Each. 
#1.00 

i-75 
3.00 


extra,  35  and  50 


Note. — In  ordering  state  kind  and  size  of  skates  for  which  the  bag  is  wanted. 


ROLLER    SKATE    PARTS. 

Each. 

Best  Boxwood  Wheels      ....  .05 

Rubber    Cushions  .         .         .         .     j .05 

Clamps      .         . .10 

Clamp   Screws      .....  ..;........  .10 

Axles         ....  .15 

Keys .10 

Per  doz. 
Washers .05 

Spring  Cotters      j        •        .        .        . •  •  -°7 

Per  pair. 

Heel  Plates,  with  screws  .        . L.io 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


21 


LAWN  TENNIS. 


The  superior  style  and  quality  of  our  Lawn  Tennis,  especially  Racquets,  is  so  well  known  that  it 
is  unnecessary  for  us  to  dwell  long  upon  its  merits.  It  will  suffice  to  say  that  we  make  a  specialty 
of  the  manufacture  of  all  requisite  articles  for  this  popular  and  exhilarating  game,  and  that  they  are 
used  in  preference  to  all  others  by  the  "  Champions,"  and  the  majority  of  best  players,  in  every  section 
of  the  United  States  where  Lawn  Tennis  is  played. 

WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S 
EXTRA   QUALITY   LAWN    TENNIS    RACQUETS. 

New  and  Improved  Models. 


mm 

A.  The  Club,  straight. 
Cork  Handle,  $6.50 
Cedar  Handle,         5.50 


B.  The  Club,  crooked. 
Cork  Handle,  $6.50 
Cedar  Handle,         5.50 


C.     New  Triangle. 
Cork  Handle,         $6.50 
Cedar  Handle,         5.50 


D.   19.     Longwood. 

Cedar  Handle,       $4.00 


The  above  cuts  give  very  good  illustrations  of  the  shapes  of  the  Racquets  they  represent.  We  can 
furnish  the  "  Longwood  "  with  either  square  or  oval  top  bows,  as  desired.  These  Racquets  are  made 
from  12  to  16  ounces  in  weight.  The  average  weights  for  ladies  are  from  \z\  to  13^  ounces;  for 
gentlemen,  14  to  15  ounces. 


22 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S 

Fine  Quality  Racquets. 


No.  I.     Special.  No.  2.     Park.  No.  3.     Surprise.      No.  4.     Shuttlecock  Racquet. 

$3-oo.  $300.  $2.00.  $1.50. 

These  Racquets  are  all  strongly  made,  and  strung  with  a  good  quality  of  gut,  and  are  equal  to 
any  other  Racquets,  at  corresponding  prices,  in  the  market. 


BEST    ENGLISH    RACQUETS. 


Feltham's,  "Alexandria" 
Jefferie's     ... 


$5.00 

-- 5.00 

To  prevent  mistakes  when  ordering  Racquets,  please  state  explicitly  the  number,  weight,  style, 
etc.,  desired. 


INLAID    PRIZE    RACQUETS. 


In  stock  and  made  to  order,  ranging  in  price  from 
Racquets  Re-strung  with  Best  Quality  Gut        - 


.co  to  $15.  x> 
tach  2:.  00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


23 


Rubbers  for  Racquet  Handles. 


50c. 


SILVER    INSCRIPTION  PLATES   FOR    RACQUETS. 

Engraved  in  Various  Designs  to  Order  from  75c.  to  $3.00 


RACQUET    CASES 


Flannel 
Green  Baize 
Home-Spun  Cloth 
Extra  Heavy  Flannel, 
English  Water-Proof, 

Twill,  leather  bound, 
Extra  Fine  Leather,  to 

order 


MAHOGANY    RACQUET    PRESSES. 

With  Brass    Screws,  Keepers,  etc.,  for   holding  two   or   four   Tennis    Racquets,    to   prevent 
warping. 

Each      •  .  •  .  $4.00 

TENNIS    BALLS. 


WIGHT  &  DITSON'S 


REGULATIONJ 


TENNIS  BALL. 


CLOTH  COVERED  ! 

Strongly 

Cemented 
and  Sewn. 


This  Ball  has  been  used  in  preference  to  all  others  for  the  past  three  seasons.  The  materials 
used  in  its  manufacture  are  all  made  expressly  for  this  purpose,  and  the  cement  is  a  special  preparation 
of  our  own,  perfected  only  after  a  long  series  of  experiments. 

Each. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Regulation  Ball 35c. 

"  "         Plain  Rubber 25c. 

"  "         Wet  Weather  Ribbed 30c. 

Balls  sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price  and  30c.  per  doz.  additional  for  postage. 


Per  doz, 

#4.00 

2.50 

3.00 


24 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S    LAWN   TENNIS   SETS, 
fin 


The  following  Tennis  Sets  are  made  up  from  the  separate  articles  advertised  in  this  catalogue, 
at  greatly  reduced  prices,  as  may  be  seen  by  adding  together  the  prices  of  the  component  parts  of  each 
set  separately. 

Would  call  special  attention  to  our  set  No.  4,  all  the  parts  of  which  are  strictly  first  quality,  and 
of  the  latest  models. 

No.  1.  Four  Surprise  Racquets  (No.  3),  two  plain  balls,  one  net  23  ieer>  one  Pair  °f  jointed 
poles,  one  set  of  guys,  runners  and  pegs,  one  mallet  and  book  of  rules.  All  complete  in  a  strong 
box.     Price #10.00 

No.  2.  Four  "Park'"  Racquets,  (No.  2),  two  plain  and  two  covered  regulation  balls,  one  net 
33  feet,  one  pair  of  jointed  poles,  one  set  of  guys,  runners  and  pegs,  one  mallet  and  book  of  rules. 
All  complete  in  a  strong  box.      Price $15.00 

No.  3.  Two  "Longzvood"  and  two  "Special"  Racquets,  (Nos.  D  ?nd  1),  four  covered  regula- 
tion balls,  one  net  23  feet,  one  pair  of  jointed  poles,  one  set  of  guys,  runners  and  pegs,  one  mallet 
and  book  of  rules.     Complete  in  a  strong  box.     Price $20.00 

No.  4.  "The  Match  Set."  Four  of  our  Extra  Quality  Racquets,  either  "The  Club"  or 
•  New  Triangle,"  (Nos.  A,  B  and  C),  six  covered  regulation  balls,  one  net  42  feet,  one  pair  of  hard- 
wood jointed  poles,  finely  polished,  one  set  of  guys,  runners  and  pegs,  one  mallet  and  book  of  rules. 
All  complete  in  a  strong  polished  box.      Price  ........        $25.00 

No.  5.  "  The  Prize  Set."  Four  of  our  Extra  Quality  Racquets,  either  "The  Club"  or 
"New  Triangle,"  two  cork  and  two  cedar  handles,  (Nos.  A,  B  and  C),  eight  covered  regulation 
balls,  one  heavy  net  42  feet,  one  set  of  hardwood  sectional  poles,  finely  finished  and  polished,  with 
fancy  turned  gilt  top  pieces,  one  set  of  guys,  runners  and  pegs,  one  mallet  and  book  of  rules.  All 
complete  in  an  extra  quality,  finely  polished  box.     Price $30.00 

No.  6.  "  The  Tournament  Set."  Four  of  our  Extra  Quality  Racquets,  either  "  The  Club"  or 
"New  Triangle,"  two  cork  and  two  handsomely  inlaid  handles,  (Nos.  A,  B  and  C),  twelve  covered 
regulation  balls,  one  extra  heavy  canvas-bound  net,  42  feet,  one  set  of  Wright  &  Ditson's  "  Improved 
Tennis  Poles,"  complete  with  centre  iron,  25  lb.  weight,  and  6  strong  iron  pins  to  fasten  poles  to  the 
ground,  one  mallet  and  book  of  rules.  All  complete  in  an  extra  quality,  finely  polished  box,  (except- 
ing poles,  iron,  etc.)     Price $40.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


25 


LAWN   TENNIS    POLES. 


Cut  No.  i. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Improved  Lawn  Tennis  Poles  are  far  superior  to  the  style  ordinarily 
used,  as  they  do  away  with  guy  ropes,  are  easily  and  quickly  adjusted,  and  are  strong  and  durable, 
being  made  of  solid  ash  and  iron,  finely  finished.  The  net  is  always  kept  taut  by  means  of  the 
weight  (see  cut  No.  1),  and  is  held  at  regular  height  by  means  of  a  centre  iron  (see  cut  No.  2),  which 
goes  with  each  set  of  poles.  The  poles  are  made  regulation  height,  and  on  the  top  of  each  one  is 
inserted  a  pulley  over  which  the  ropes  of  the  net  pass.  One  of  the  aforesaid  ropes  is  connected 
with  the  iron  weight  in  such  a  manner  as  to  allow  for  shrinkage,  so  that  the  net  cannot  burst 
when  wet. 

In  Adjusting  the  Poles  and  Net,  place  the  poles  on  the  ground  33  feet  apart  for  the  two- 
handed  game,  and  42  feet  for  the  four-handed  game,  and  fix  them  thereto  by  the  iron  pins,  which 
drive  into  the  ground  in  a  slanting  position,  then  place  the  net  in  the  rings  provided  for  them  in  the 
poles.  Next  take  the  top  rope  of  the  net,  one  'end  of  which  pass  over  the  pulley  on  the  pole,  and 
fasten  to  the  weight ;  the  other  end  pass  over  the  pulley  of  the  opposite  pole,  and  fasten  to  the  cleat. 
When  the  net  is  tightened  to  3  feet  in  the  centre,  which  is  regulation  height,  arrange  the  centre  iron 
half  way  between  the  two  poles  to  hold  the  net  in  that  position. 

Price  of  Poles,  complete  with  centre  iron,  weight  and  6  iron  pins         -        -        $8.00. 


Cut  No 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Regulation  Centre  Iron,  for  holding  Tennis  Net  at  regulation 
height       ---.-••••-----        each, 


$1.0 


26 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


SECTIONAL    POLES. 

No.  10.    Hard  Wood,  shellaced,  brass  ferrules,  i^  inches  in  diameter        - 
No.  II.    Rock  Maple,  highly  polished,  brass  ferrules,  if  inches  in  diameter  - 

No.  12.    Ash  on  Rock  Maple,  finely  finished  and  polished,  brass  ferrules,  and  fancy  gilt 
top  pieces,  if  inches  in  diameter     ---------- 

Guy  Ropes,  Runners  and  Pegs  -.---.._-  per   set, 

Mallets  for  driving  pegs        ----___.-.         .     each, 


Per  Pair. 

$1.00 

2.00 

3.OO 
.50 
.25 


DR.    DWIGHT'S  PATENT   TENNIS    POLES. 


The  principles  upon  which  these  poles  are  operated,  are  so  thoroughly  illustrated  in  the  above 
cut  that  they  scarcely  need  a  description  ;  and  from  the  fact  itself  of  their  having  been  invented  by 
one  of  our  most  expert  tennis  players,  is  sufficient  to  establish  their  merits.  They  are  strongly  made 
of  wood  and  iron,  finely  finished  and  nicely  painted.  To  adjust  these  poles  for  use,  place  them  in  the 
ground  (as  per  illustration),  33  feet  apart  for  single  and  42  feet  for  double  court.  Next  fasten  the  net 
to  the  screw-eyes  in  the  poles  provided  for  the  purpose,  then  tie  one  end  of  the  top  rope  to  a  hook 
on  the  outside  of  one  of  the  poles,  pass  it  across  the  top  of  both  poles  and  wind  it  on  the  little 
ratchet  apparatus  (see  cut)  until  the  centre  of  the  net  is  at  regulation  height,  where  it  will  remain 
taut. 

Price  of  Poles,  per  pair, :  $6.00 


REGULATION     TENNIS     NETS. 
First  Quality    Square  Mesh. 


No.  112.    Single  Court,  33x24  feet,  medium  weight 
No.  212.    Double      "       42  x  z\     "  " 

No.  315.    Single        "     33  x  2\    "     heavy, 
No.  415.    Double      "       42  x  2\    "         " 
No.  621.       "  "       42  x  z\    "     Tournament,  extra  heavy 

Any  of  the  above  nets  bound  across  top  with  canvas 
No/712.    Back  Nets,  50  x  7  feet,  medium  weight 


extra  per  net, 
each, 


Each. 

52.50 
3.00 
3.00 
4.00 
5.00 
2.00 
5.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


27 


TENNIS    SUNDRIES. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Pocket  Tournament  Score  Book 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Pocket  Tournament  Score  Cards       -        -        -  each  30.,  per  doz. 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Official  Tennis  Rules  -        - per  copy, 

100  feet  Tape  Measure,  for  measuring  Tennis  Courts         ------      each, 

Pewter  Mugs,  glass  bottomed,  for  prizes       --------  " 

Lawn  Tennis  Racquet  Scarf  Pins,   gold  plated         -------  " 


.25 

•30 

•'5 

1.50 

2.50 

1. 00 


SINGLE  AND    DOUBLE    TENNIS  BELT  CLASPS. 

Made  of   Frosted  Silver  and  Gold  Plate,  with  design  of  crossed  racquets  and  other  emblems  of 
the  game.     Single  clasps,  75c.  ;    double  clasps,  $1.50. 


OFFICIAL    LAWN    TENNIS    RULES. 

This  is  to  certify  that  Messrs.  Wright  &  Ditson  have  been  given  the  exclusive  right  to  publish 
the  Official  Rules  of  Lawn  Tennis,  as  well  as  the  Constitution  and  By-Laws  of  the  United  States 
National  Lawn  Tennis  Association.  JAMES    DWIGHT, 

Prest.   U.  S.  N.  L.  T.  A. 

LAWN  TENNIS    MARKERS. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Lawn  Tennis  Court  Marker  is 
a  necessary  article  for  marking  out  Courts.  It  can  1  e 
operated  with  ease  and  speed,  no  slopping  over,  and 
a  Court  can  be  marked  in  a  few  minutes.  It  holds 
sufficient  mixture  to  mark  out  a  Court  without  refilling, 
thus  saving  time,  waste  and  mess.     Price,  $5.00. 

When  the  Marker  is  not  in  use,  keep  water  in  it  to 
prevent  leaking. 

Note. — In  marking,  whitening  should  be  used  in 
preference  to  whitewash.  Mix  the  whitening  well  in 
a  pail  of  water  before  placing  in  the  Marker. 

Lawn  Tennis  Tapes. — These  Tapes  are  made  up  in  sets,  consisting  of  a  sufficient  number  ot 
pieces  of  strong  webbing  (eyeleted  with  brass),  for  marking  out  both  a  single  and  double  Court. 
The  tapes  are  fastened  firmly  to  the  ground  by  means  of  galvanized  iron  pins,  which  accompany 
each  set. 


Price  Complete,  per  set 


$6.00 


COLONEL  GODFREY'S  LAWN  TENNIS  MARKING  PINS. 

These  pins  are  very  useful  for  marking  out  Courts,  for  after  once  placed  in  position  they  do  away 
with  the  necessity  of  measuring  the  Court  every  time  it  is  marked  out. 

Price  per  set  of  eight  Corner  Pieces, $1.25 

"         "  "  "  "  "      and  two  T  pieces,         -        -        -  1.50 


28 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


LAWN    TENNIS    WELLS    AND    BALL 
^CARRIERS. 

These  compact  little  articles  are  very  convenient  to  have  on  the 
lawn,  where  Lawn  Tennis,  Croquet  and  other  games  are  played. 
They  are  very  useful  for  holding  racquets,  tennis  balls,  croquet 
balls,  mallets,  &c.  The  frames  are  made  of  hard  wood,  neatly 
turned  and  polished,  and  are  fitted  with  stout  canvas  wells.  Will 
fold  up  like  a  camp  stool. 


Price  per  pair 


LAWN  TENNIS  SUITS. 

We  have  in  stock  and  make  to  order  Tennis  Suits  of  every  descrip 
tion.  Would  call  special  attention  to  our  stock  of  Tennis  Suitings,  | 
which  consists  of  a  variety  of  shades  of  fine  flannels  and  a  large  f| 
assortment  of  fancy  stripes  and  checks  of  new  and  neat  designs.  [| 
Hats,  Caps,  Pants,  Shirts,  &c,  made  from  these  goods  at  moderate  || 
prices. 

Coats,  flannel,  any  color,  fine  quality $7.00 

"  "         fancy  stripes  or  checks      ....  7.00 

"      extra  quality  English  flannel 12.00 


TENNIS   COAT. 


TENNIS   SHIRT. 


Shirts,  flannel,  any  color         .......  $3-Oo 

"      extra  quality,  any  color 5.00 

"         "           "         fancy   stripes  or  checks             .         .         .  5.00 

"       patent  laced,  any  color         ......  3-00 

Knee  Pants,  flannel,  any  color           ......  2.50 

"         "       extra  quality  flannel,  any  color             .         .         .  4.50 

Long       "       flannel,  plain  colors       ......  3.00 

"         *'       extra  quality,  any  color      .....  S-OO 

Stockings,  W.  &  D's.,  extra  quality  in  a  variety  of  colors,  Nos. 

1  and  3 per  pair,  $1.00  and  2.00 

Stockings,  fine  English  ribbed,  No.  2                          "  2.00 

Belts,  variety  of  colors,  single  buckle,  each  50c,  double  buckle  .75 

We  can  make  suits  at  very  short  notice,  as  this  part  of  our  business  is 
in  the  hands  of  an  experienced  cutter.  Samples  of  flannel  sent  on  appli- 
cation. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


29 


LAWN    TENNIS    HATS. 


SCUTCH  TAM  O  SHANTER. 


LAND  AND  WATER  HAT, 


TENNIS    HAT. 


LAND   AND   WATER    HAT. 


The  Land  and  Water  Hat  (imported),  made  of  wool,  but  very  light  weight,  assorted  colors, 
solid  blue,  white,  red,  or  mottled  red  and  white,  blue  and  white,  brown  and  white,  can  be  made 
into  about  six  different  shapes,  very  handy  for  Lawn  Tennis,  camping  out,  the  beach,  etc.  Price, 
#1.75  by  mail. 

SCOTCH    TAM    O'SHANTER. 

The  Tam  O'Shanter  Hats  are  of  the  best  material  and  workmanship  to  be  had  in  Scotland,  all 
wdoI,  hand  made,  colors  mostly  brown  and  dark  olive  green.     Boys'  size,  $1.50,  Men's,  $2.00. 


ROUND    CROWN    TENNIS    HAT. 

Made  of   flannel,  in  a  variety  of  shades,  plain  or  trimmed  . 


each,         $1.50 


COOL  HATS  FOR  HOT  WEATHER. 

.  Each. 

Canvas  Helmets,  white,  slate  color,  etc #1.50 

Canvas  Hats,  round  crown  .         .         .         .        <        ......  .60 

Bamboo     "  "  " 1.75 

LAWN  TENNIS  SHOES 

^pS^  -'■;! 

We  have  in  stock  this  season  a   fine   line  of   Tennis 
,     Shoes  with  rubber  soles  as  follows  • 

Per  Pair. 

No.  11.  Extra  quality,  French  calf •  $6.00 

No.  12.  Fine  English,  canvas,  foxed  with  calf 4.00 

No.  13.  Canvas,  high  laced            ............  4.00 

No.  14.  Brown  Canvas ...  3.00 

No.  15.  Tennis  Slipper,  (very  light  weight),  leather 2.75 

No.  16.         "            "        white   canvas         ..........  1.25 


30 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BATTLEDORES  AND  SHUTTLECOCKS. 

These  goods  we  import  direct  from  the  English  and  French  Markets,  and  they  are  of  the  best 
quality  produced. 


ENGLISH    BATTLEDORES. 

Vellum  Drum  one  side,  and  strung  like  a  tennis  racquet  on      Nos.   12345 

the  other             per  pair,             $1.50    $1.75     $2.00    $2.50  $3.00 

Vellum  Drum  both  sides     ....                  "                        1.00       1.25       1.75       2.25  2.75 

Parchment  Drum   both  sides            ...             "                         .75         .85       1. 15       1.25  1.50 

FRENCH  BATTLEDORES. 

Strung  with  Gut  like  a  Tennis  Racquet,  with  fancy  leather                    Nos.         16           18  20 

Covered  Handles •       Per  pair,  $1.25     $1.75  $2  'O 

FRENCH  BATTLEDORE  AND  SHUTTLECOCK  SETS. 

No.  1.     Put  up  in  a  Handsome   Box,  containing  two  finely  Ornamented  Gut  Strung  Racquets 

and  six  Best  Quality  Shuttlecocks Price  $3.00 

No.  2.     Same  as  above,  larger  size "  3.50 

No.  3.     Extra  Quality,  largest  size "  4.50 

FRENCH    SHUTTLECOCKS. 

Fancy  Velvet  Bottrms,   Bound,  with    Tinsel,  strongly  made;  Best  Quality  Feathers  and  finely 

finished.                                                                                                      No.     16         18          20  24 

Per  Pair 25c.      35c.      45c.  55c. 

GRACE    HOOPS. 

Colored  Spicks,  with  Velvet-Covered  Hoops. 

Per  Set,  4  Sticks,  2  Hoops $    60 

"        4       "      2      "      good 1. 00 

"        4       "      2      "       fine 1.25 

"        4       "      2      "       medium 1.50 

"        4       '*      2      "       best 2.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


3i 


HILDEGARDE  AND  LADIES'  CRICKET. 


We  have  much  pleasure  in  introducing  this  new  English  game,  which  is  a  combination  of  the 
noble  old  English  one  of  Cricket  with  the  popular  American  one  of  Base  Ball.  It  is  especially 
adapted  in  its  arrangements  and  implements  to  fit  it  for  the  use  of  ladies,  and  enables  them  to  take  part 
in  a  healthy  exercise,  either  with  or  without  the  company  of  their  gentlemen  friends.  It  is  designed 
to  supply  a  want  amongst  our  out-door  amusements,  and  possesses  numerous  advantages  over  every 
other  game  of  its  kind.  For  young  people  of  both  sexes  it  is  unrivalled  as  a  healthy  and  enjoyable 
recreation.  Active  and  interesting  without  being  either  laborious  or  dangerous.  Simple  in  its  prin- 
ciple, but  capable  of  developing  a  large  amount  of  skill  in  its  practice. 

It  requires  only  light  and  inexpensive  implements,  and  can  be  played  on  any  open  space  of  ground 
whether  grass,  stubble,  gravel,  or  the  sands  of  the  sea  shore  ;  the  ground  requiring  no  special  or 
costly  preparation,  such  as  the  case  for  Cricket,  Croquet,  or  Lawn  Tennis.  What  Cricket  is,  and 
has  been  to  young  men  for  so  many  years,  Hildegarde  is  to  girls  and  mixed  parties  of  young  ladies 
and  gentlemen.  For  the  physical  development  and  healthy  exercise  of  growing  girls,  it  is  exceed- 
ingly beneficial,  and  deserves  the  attention  of,  and  cultivation  by,  the  principals  of  our  female  Educa- 
tional Establishments,  throughout  the  country. 

The  implements  consist  of  Staffs,  Targets,  Bats,  a  Ball,  and  a  Foot-base.  The  staff  and  target 
correspond  to  the  wicket  in  ordinary  cricket.  Three  of  each  are  used  in  Hildegarde,  and  two  of 
each  in  Ladies'  Cricket.  The  foot-base  serves  as  the  "bowling  crease"  and  the  bat  and  ball  are 
used  as  in  Cricket,  though  their  form  and  size  differ  materially  from  those  used  in  the  manly  game. 


IMPLEMENTS   FOR   BOTH    GAMES. 

The  whole  of  which  are  contained  in  a  box  38  inches  long,  and  6^  inches  wide,  and  3^  inches 

deep.     The  complete  set  weighing  under  18  pounds. 

No.  1.  Containing  Three  Painted  Staffs,  Three  Targets,  Three  Holders,  Four  Plain  Bats,  Two 
Balls,  One  Foot  Base,  Fifteen  Numbered  Badges  Blue,  Fifteen  Numbered  Red,  One 
Book  of  Rules  and  Instructions,  in  plain  box $15.00 

No.  2.  Containing  Three  Painted  Staffs,  Three  Targets,  Three  Holders,  Four  Polished  Bats, 
Four  Balls,  One  Foot-Base,  Superior  Badges  as  above,  One  Book  of  Rules,  in  polished  box,  20.00 


32 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


CRICKET    GOODS. 


3F^^=w=3ic>^» 


I- 


Batting  Gloves. 


Bat. 


Stumps. 


;Ball. 


Leg  Guards. 


As  there  is  a  promised  boom  in  Cricket,  like  in  other  Athletic  Games,  we  have  prepared  our- 
selves with  an  A  No.  I  stock  to  meet  the  demand  at  as  low  prices  as  can  be  purchased  elsewhere. 
During  the  past  year  we  have  had  made  expressly  for  our  trade  a  fine  assortment  of  first-class  cane- 
handle  bats,  which  have  just  arrived  from  a  well-known  English  manufacturer. 

BATS. 


No.  i.     Wright  &  Ditson,  all  Cane,  Superior  (for  private  use) $7.00 

2.  Double  Cane    .               5.75 

3.  Cobbett  Single  Cane  (Match)          ....               .......  5.00 

4.  Dovetailed  and  Polished  (Club) 4.00 

'     5.     Handle  and  Bat  one  Piece  (Practice) 3.00 

'     6.     Youth's  Bat ....  1.50 

'    7.     Boy's  Bat .•  ...      50c,  75c,  and  1.00 

reen  Baize  Bags,  for  Bats ...  .75 

Leather  Bags,  for  Bats 1.75 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


33 


BALLS. 

Dukes'  Match  Ball,  Superior  Treble-Seamed #3-0o 

Superior  Treble-Seamed  Match  Ball 2.75 

Practice,  Double-Seamed 2.00 

Youth's  Practice 1.00 

Boy's  Extra-Strong  Sewed .75 

LEG   GUARDS. 

Per  Pair. 

Best  Buck,  Straps  and  Buckle  J $4. 50 

Best  Buff,  with  Straps 4.00 

Cheap  Buck  for  Boys,  with  Strings 3.50 

Abdomen  Protector,  made  of  Buck,  and  Padded 1.50 

Abdomen  Protector,  made  of  Wire,  and  Padded  (something  new) 2.50 

BATTING     AND   WICKET-KEEPING   GLOVES. 

Batting  Gloves,  Sponge  Rubber  (new) $4.00 

"              "         Vulcanized  Rubber .  3/50 

Wicket-Keeping  Gloves,  Best  Buff,  Patent  Ventilated .  4.50 

"              "              "         Buff,  Plain 4.00 

WICKETS   OR   STUMPS. 

Rock  Maple,  Brass  Capped  and  Iron  Points $3. 50 

Polished  Maple,  Brass  Ringed 2.50 

Polished  Maple,  Plain 2.00 

Boy's  Maple  and  Ash  _, .75 


CRICKET   SHOE. 


French  Calf  Cricket  Shoe,  same  as  Cut,  Ready 
Made  or  to  Order. 


Price 


No.  13. 


$6.00 


CRICKET    SPIKES. 

No.  10.     Plain  Iron  Spikes,  per  set  of  eight  with  Screws     ....  25c. 

No.  11.     Fine  Steel  Spikes,  per  set  of  eight  with  Screws         .        .        .  40c 

No.  12.     Brass  Plates,  Steel  Spikes,  per  set  of  eight  with  Screws      .       .  50c 

No.  13.     Steel  Spikes,  to  Screw  into  Shoe,  per  set  of  twelve   ...  50c 


No.  10,  11,  12. 


3* 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


CRICKET    SCORE-BOOKS. 

Club  Score-Book,  Stiff  Cover $3-oo 

Club  Score-Book,  Paper  Cover i.oo 

Club  Score-Book,  Paper  Cover ....         50c.  and  .75 

Wisden's  Cricketer's  Guide  for  18S4 .75 

Cricket  Book  of  Rules 15c.  and  .25 

Liberal  discount  to  Clubs  for  orders  of  $20.00  and  upwards. 


CROQUET. 


Our  Croquet  is  made  from  well-seasoned  wood,  nicely  painted,  put  up  in  strongly-made  hinged 
boxes,  and  will  be  found  the  best  quality  of  Croquet  in  the  market  at  following  prices  :  — 

C  —  Hard  Wood $1.00 

CX  —  Rock  Maple,  Large  Varnished  Balls 1.50 

E  —  Rock  Maple,  Extra  Stripe  and  Extra  Varnish,  Heavy  Arches,  Elegant  Stake   .        .        .  2.25 

F  —  Very  Heavy  Arches,  Long  6-inch  Mallet  Heads 3.50 

G  —  Very  Heavy  Arches,  Long  7-inch  Mallet  Heads,  the  best  set  in  the  market        .       .        .  4.00 

All  full  sets.     Books  and  Sockets  in  each  set  except  C.     All  have  Copper  Wire  Arches. 

Each. 

Fine  Rosewood  Club  Mallets,  Long  Heads,  Professional  Style $2.00 

Turkey  Boxwood  or  Lignum  vitas  Balls .60 

Hlustrated  Croquet  Books .10 

Heavy  Iron  Wickets,  20  inches  long,  7  inches  wide,  $1.50  per  set.     14^  inches  long,  $1.00  per  set. 

Sent  by  Express  C.  O.  D. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


35" 


LACROSSE 

Is  a  most  interesting  as  well  as  healthful  sport 
for  the  fall  and  winter ;  it  is  fast  becoming  a 
favorite  game  on  the  ice,  taking  the  place  of 
Hockey. 

We  are  Agents  for  Flannery's  Sticks, 
which  are  all  of  a  perfect  make,  and  a  favorite 
stick  with  the  leading  clubs. 

Per  doz.- 
Flannery's  Double  Strung  Match  Stick,         $2 1 .  00  > 


Single 


Boy's 


Balls,  Regulation  Size 
Balls  for  Boys     . 
Rules  for  Lacrosse 
Lacrosse  Shoes  . 


15.00 
15.00 
Each. 

$  .50 
.40 
.10 

I.2S 


ARCHERY. 


Bows,  from     , 
Arrows,  from 
Arrow  Points 


Quiver  and  Belt 


50c.  to  $to,oo 
$1.00  to  $9.00  per  doe. 
25c,  50c,  60c.      " 


Bow  Strings 
Arm  Guards 
Quivers    . 


Arm  Guard. 


Each. 
25c,  50c,  60c. 
50c,  75c. 
50c.,  75c,  1. 00 


36 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


TARGETS. 

Our  Targets  are  all  made  extra  heavy,  out  of  best  quality  rye  straw,  plaited  and  sewed  with 
heavy  tarred  string,  making  them  very  handsome  and  durable. 

Each. 

ia  inch  Target $1.00 

15  inch  Target 1.25 

18  inch  Target 1.75 

21  inch  Target 2.00 

24  inch  Target 2.50 

30  inch  Target 3.00 

36  inch  Target 4.00 

48  inch  Target         .        • 6.00 

Facings  only,  12  inch,  25  cts. ;    15  inch,  30  cts.  ;    18  inch,  40  cts. ;    21  inch,  50  cts. ;    24  inch, 
65  cts. ;  30  inch,  75  cts. ;  36  inch,  $1.00  ;  48  inch,  $1.50. 

TARGET   STANDS. 

Each. 

4  Feet  Iron  Stand,  Portable $2.00 

5  "      "        "  •       • 2.50 

5*  "      "        "  " 2.75 

r "  "    "      "       3.00 

Wooden  Stands •       .        .        .        .      75c,  $1.00  and  #1.50 

A  liberal  discount  to  clubs.     Fuller  particulars  as  to  Bows,  Arrows,  etc.,  will  be  sent  if  desired. 

ENGLISH   IRON   QUOITS. 
JAPANNED. 

W^^^^Wii  NhS™*^'  "i  Weight  2  lbs.  each,  per  set  4     .        .        .      $  .75 

raWQ^MilWK1i   u  *  "       «     ...    1.35 

±^^;/jMf/  ENGLISH    STEEL. 

Mm 

Weight  5  lbs.  each,  per  set  4  5.00 

Iron  Pins  for  the  above,  50  cts.  per  pair  extra. 

IMPLEMENTS   FOR   ATHLETIC   GAMES. 
Iron  Hammer  with  Hickory  Handle. 

Lbs.  12  16  20  jfftfjBBfox 

Hammer  only,  each  .        .  1.25       1. 50       1.75      Wg  KB^B^tesss^gi. 

16  lbs.  is  latest  adopted  Regulation  Weight.  ^||  jV  ^^^^^BSsl? 


SOLID    SHOT. 

$1.25    $1.5° 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


37 


FOOT    BALLS,    ETC. 


Our  Rugby,  or  oval  shaped  Foot  Balls,  consist  of  strong 
rubber  bladders  and  outside  cases  of  selected  cow-hide,  which 
are  lined  with  a  water-proof  material  to  protect  the  bladders  5 
have  double  lace  holes,  and  are  double  stitched  at  the  ends. 
They  are  the  genititte  first  quality  English  Balls,  of  our  own 
importation,  made  to  order  expressly  for  us,  and  not  the  second 
quality  sold  by  some  dealers  at  first  quality  prices.  Our  Ball 
is  now  used  by  all  the  leading  colleges  and  schools. 

Nos 4  5 

Inches  in  Circumference 24  27 

Each  $4.00    $5.00 


AMERICAN    RUGBY. 

Nos.            2  3 

Inches  in  Circumference 19  22 

Each #3.00  #3.50 


ENGLISH  BLADDERS  ONLY. 

N°s 2  3  4  5 

Each $1.25  $1.50    $1.75    $2.00 

No  Foot-Ball  Ball  Bladders  will  be  taken  back  after  once  sold,  as  they  are  all  tested  and  found 
perfect  before  leaving  our  store.     Never  inflate  a  Bladder  unless  in  the  leather  case. 


THE   ASSOCIATION,    OR   AMERICAN    RUBBER 
FOOT   BALL, 

Is  made  of  Heavy  Canvas,  thoroughly  saturated  with  rubber,  very 
strong,  to  be  blown  up  with  key,  which  goes  with  each  one.  Sizes 
and  prices  are  as  follows  :  — 

Nos 1  2  3  4  5  6 

Inches  in  Circumference,   16          19          22          24          27         30 
Each    ....      $1.25    $1.50     $1.75     #2.00    $2.25     $2.50 
Keys  for  American  Foot  Ball,  extra 10 


38 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


THE  NEW  PATENT  FOOT  BALL  INFLATOR. 

This  Cut  One-Third  Size. 

With   these  Inflators  the  largest  ball  can  be 

^^WPiffl^fci^s.  inflated    to    its    fullest  capacity  in   five  minutes' 

"'-*"  ^S^IfSilk  time-     It:  is  not  advisable  to  inflate  Foot  -  Balls 

with  the  breath,  as  the  moisture  that  collects  in 
them   soon  rots  the   bladder.     You  will  always 
'^0ffm^m  keep  the  bladder  dry  by  using  the  new  Foot  -  Ball 

^Ifc'  ••  "W  Inflator. 

Price,  only $1.00. 

We  are  the  official  publishers  of  the  latest  "  Foot-Ball  Rules,"  and   "  Referee's  Book,"  and 
"  Foot-Ball  Record  Book." 

Rules  and  Referee's  Book     .  15 

Record  Book,  per  copy .25 


FOOT  EALL  SHOES. 


FOOT  BALL  JERSEY. 
CANVAS  FOOT  BALL  JACKET. 

Our  Foot  Ball  Jackets  are  strongly  made,  of  the  best  quality  white  canvas  after  the  latest 
styles,  as  used  by  the  college  foot  ball  teams. 

Each '•''•>        $2.00 

Per  dozen 21.00 


SOMETHING   NEW. 

The  Elastic  Back  Foot  Ball  Jacket.  This  jacket  is  made  the  same  as  the  ordinary  with 
the  exception  of  the  back,  in  which  there  is  inserted  an  elastic  gore,  allowing  perfect  freedom  of  mo- 
tion for  the  arms  and  back.     This  jacket  has  been  adopted,  and  is  now  used  by  the  Harvard  Eleven, 

Price,  each •        $3  00 

Per  dozen 30.00 

Foot  Ball  Jackets  and  Jerseys  sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price  and  20  cents  additional  for 
postage. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


39 


FOOT    BALL  JERSEYS. 

Made  from  the  best  quality  worsted  with  collar,  striped  or  plain  colors. 

Striped 54-5° 

Plain  colors    • 4.00 

COLLEGE    FOOT   BALL   SHOE. 

This  Shoe  is  made  from  the  best  French  calf,  high  laced,  extra  strong  soies,  with  leather  cross 
bars. 

Best  French  calf $6.50 

Canvas,  strongly  made 3  50 

WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S    FOOT    BALL  RUSHER'S    MOUTH    PROTECTOR, 


The  above  Protector  for  the  teeth  of  Foot  Ball  Players,  is  the  most  desirable  article  for  the  pur- 
pose yet  invented ;  being  made  of  rubber,  it  can  be  held  in  the  mouth  without  having  any  disagree- 
able taste. 

Samples  by  mail,  each 50c 


FOOT    BALL   SHIN    GUARDS. 

No.  1.  — Made  in  Buff  Leather,  with  Cane,  and  fastened  with  elastic 
and  buckles;  thin,  light,  and  a  great  protection  ;  can  be 
worn  under  the  stocking,  weighing  under  six  ounces. 

Per  pair   .  • $1-25 

No.  2.  —  White  Chamois,  ditto,  ditto    .  1.75 

FOOT   BALL    STOCKINGS. 

Per  pair  .....      50  cents,  $1.00,  and  $2.00 

FOOT    BALL   CAPS. 
Each $1.00 

N.  B.  —  For   further  particulars   in  regard  to  foot  ball  stockings,  see  Base  Ball  Department; 
Jierseys,  Tights,  etc.,  see  Worsted  Goods. 


40 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S  SPECIAL  BICYCLE. 


This  Machine  is  designed  for  actual  use,  and  is  as  durable  as  any  of  the  high-priced  bicycler 
It  is  well  finished  and  substantially  made,  and  has  all  of  the  important  improvements,  as  follows  : 

Hollow  Steel  Backbone,  round  and  tapered ;  Steel  Spokes,  headed  and  screwed  directly  into  the 
hubs  ;  Malleble  Iron  Forks,  with  long  steering  centres;  Steel  Handle  Bar  and  Rims;  Malleable  Iron 
Hubs  and  Cranks  ;  Steel  Bearings,  parallel  in  front  and  cone  behind,  all  adjustable ;  Tires  of  the 
best  Red  Rubber,  carefully  cemented ;  Patent  Adjustable  Step. 


No. 

Diameter  of 
Front  Wheel. 

Diamet ;      of 
Rear  Wheel. 

Length  of  Leg 

inside  measure 

to  ball  of  foot 

under  sole. 

Weight   com- 
plete with  sad- 
dle and  pedals. 

Price. 

44 
46 
48 
5° 

44 
46 
48 
5° 

16 
16 
16 
16 

31  inches. 

32  " 

33  " 

34  " 

37  lbs. 
39    " 
41    " 
44    " 

$45.00 
50.00 
55.00 
60.00 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


4i 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S  IMPROVED  BICYCLE. 


3    ^ 


Ki 


>« 

<^ 

ft 

**i 

*> 

^ 

J? 

^ 

a 

3 

TS4 

a,, 

e»i 

^ 

ft 

^ 

«*, 

Si' 

^ 

<~1. 

« 

*a 

<l 

§ 

ft 

<*> 

« 

*- 

«*» 

**. 

ft 

» 

*r> 

?* 

^ 

a 

os 

"5. 

«5 

.*. 

Hollow  Tapered  Backbone  ;  Steel  Spokes ;  Malleble  Iron  Forks  ;  Steel  Handle  Bar  and  Rims  ; 
Malleable  Iron  Hubs  ;  Steel  Axles  ;  Adjustable  Bearings  and  Cranks  ;  Rubber  Tire  ;  Leather  Suspen- 
sion Saddle. 




No. 

Diameter  of  Front 
Wheel. 

Diameter  of  Hind 
Wheel. 

Length  of  Leg  In- 
side    Measure    to 

Sole  of  Foot. 
t 

Price. 

1 

2 

3 
4 

28  in. 
32  " 
36  " 

42    " 

14  in. 
14  " 
18  " 
18  " 

23  in. 
25  " 
28  " 

$12.50 
18.00 
25.00 
35  00 

CYCLOMETERS. 

We  have  these  to  fit  all  sizes  of  Bicycles  above  40-inch.  Well 
made  perfectly  reliable  and  accurate,  and  so  constructed  as  not  to  be 
liable  to  get  out  of  order.  Require  no  adjusting,  but  simply  clamp 
on  to  one  of  the  spokes.  Thousands  have  been  sold  the  past  year 
without  a  single  complaint.  Will  register  from  the  fractional  part 
of  a  mile  up  to  1,000  miles. 
Prioe,  nickel  plated,  by  mail      .       .       .       .       .       .  $4.00 


42 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S    NEW  WHITE    OAK  VELOCIPEDE. 

This  Machine  is  designed  for  strength  and  speed,  is  built  after  a  new  model 
which  stands  high  with  the  wheels  near  together,  and  the  seats  well  forward  im. 
mediately  over  the  front  wheel,  like  the  bicycle.  Made  of  the  best  selected  White 
Oak,  and  warranted  to  carry  200  lbs. 


No. 
B 

C  . 
D 


Size  of  Wheel. 
24 

28 
32 


Price. 

57.OO 

8.00 
IO.OO 


BICYCLE    SUNDRIES. 


BICYCLE    OILER. 

Can  be  carried  in  the  vest  pocket,  and 
the  patent  screw  cap  prevents  the  oil  from 
escaping.     When  required  for  use  the  cap 
is  removed.     [See  cut.]        % 
Nickle-plated,   each  .  .25     By  mail    .    30 


WRENCHES. 

No.  1.  Aiken's  Best.     Polished       • .40 

"     2.        "        "         Nickeled • .60 

"    3.   "B.  &S."     Hardened  Steel,  Blued 75 

"    4.       "       "  "  "       Nickeled" $1.00 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  5c.  extra. 

SILVER-TONE  BICYCLE   BELL. 

The   loudest   yet    sweetest-toned  bell   made,    adapted  to  all   sizes  of 
machine. 

No.  1.  Large $1.00  each. 

"    2.  Medium    .  .75      " 

"    3.  Small   for  Boys'  Bicycles .50     " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  10c.  extra. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  43 


HARRISON'S  (ENGLISH)  ALARM  BELL. 

This  is  the  favorite  with  all  bicyclists.     It   has  a  ratchet  arrangement  on  striker  which  gives 
a  number  of  continuous  blows. 

Single  Gong     .       .        • .              $2.00  each.     By  mail,  $2. 10  each. 

Double     "           .                    2.50     "          "      "         2.60     " 

HILL   &  TOLMAN'S   AUTOMATIC    ALARM. 

The  best  Bell  made,  giving  a  continuous  and  loud  alarm  as  long  as  the  hand  is  held  on  the  lever. 
In  ordering  send  make  of  machine  it  is  to  be  used  upon. 
Price •  $300  each.     By  mail,  $3.15  each. 

BICYCLE   HUB   LAMPS. 

Patent  Safety  Fastening  for  axle.     The  Wick  cannot  jar  down  or  blow  out. 

No.  1.  Japanned $3.00  each. 

"     2.  Nickel  Plated 4.00    " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  25c.  extra. 

BICYCLE    BAGS. 

Best  quality  Bridle  Leather,  well  made. 

No.  1.  Good  quality By  mail,  $1.00  each. 

"    2.  Best      "         hand  stitched ,  "   .  "        1.25     " 

BICYCLE  WHISTLES. 

,  Each. 

Duplex  Calls,  or  Calliope  Whistles -               .  By  mail,     .80 

"          "       "         "               "          with  chain "       "   $1.00 

Horn,  "Tally-ho"  Whistle ....  "       "        .75 


Horn,  small "       «' 


•35 


Brittannia,  double  end "       "       .50 


BICYCLE   LOCKS. 

With  strong  Chains,  and  two  Flat,  Steel  Keys. 

No.  1.  Japanned,  with  Tinned  Chain .50  each.  By  mail,      .60  each. 

"    2.  Brass,  with  Brass  Chain .75     "  "       "         ,85      " 

"    3.  Nickel  Plated  Lock  and  Chain $1.00     "  "       "     $1.10      " 

Cement,  for  securing  Tires By  mail,  .30  per  cake. 

"         "    mending  Cuts Not  mailable,  .25    "  bottle. 

Rust  Preventive,  small      ....•....'  "          "  .25    "       •' 

"              "             large "          "  .50   "       " 

Bicycle  Gloves,  good By  mail,  #1.00   "  pair. 

"           "        fine mm  I#50  m    m 


44  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BICYCLE   SUITS. 

This  year  we  are  paying  particular  attention  to  the  bicycle  branch  of  our  uniform  business,  and 
have  placed  it  in  charge  of  a  practical  man,  who  will  furnish  all  desired  information  and  on  applica- 
tion quote  prices  and  send  samples  of  goods  to  any  address. 

We  will  make  suits  to  order  from  fine  English  Homespun,  Cassimeres  and  Corduroy,  with  fine 
quality  linings,  etc.,  as  follows:  — 

Norfolk  Blouse • $11.00 

Jackets • 10.00 

Vests 3  00 

Knee  Breeches 4.50 

Pantaloons 5.50 

Caps        ....               1.50 

Hemlets 2.00 

Leggins $2.00  to  3.00 


MIDDLESEX    FLANNEL   SUITS. 

In  stock  and  made  to  order  from  good  and  extra  quality  flannels  and  trimmings,  as  follows  :  — 

Good  Qual.  Ex.  Qual. 

Norfolk  Blouse  ....        • $6.00  $7.00 

Jackets 5.00  6.00 

Shirts,  button  or  lace 3.00  5.00 

Knee  Breeches,  double  seat 3.00  4.50 

Pantaloons 3.00  5.00 

Caps 1. 00  1.25 


WOOLLEN    BICYCLE    STOCKINGS. 

Per  Pair. 

No.  1.  —  Extra  Heavy,  finest  quality $2.00 

"     2.  —              "                English  Ribbed 2.00 

"    3.  —  Heavy,  good  quality 1.00 

"    4. — Medium       "             •  .50 

"  X.  —  French  Cotton,  Ribbed,  very  fine 1.50 


BICYCLE    SHOES. 

Rubber  Sole,  Canvas  Tops •  $3-oo 

"                          "         English 4-00 

"  French  Calf  Tops,  very  fine 6.00 

Racing  Slippers,  Rubber  Sole,  Canvas  Tops 1.25 

11              "                       "          Leather    "    very  fine,  to  lace  to  the  toe          ...  2.75 

Bicycle  Belts  (see  Base  Ball  Goods) 25,  .50,  .75 

For  Racing  Tights  see  Worsted  Goods. 

Note.  —Liberal  discount  from  above  prices  on  order  for  club  outfits. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  45 


FISHING  TACKLE. 

WRIGHT  &    DITSON'S    EXTRA    FINE   HAND-MADE    FISHING 

RODS. 


awaBMBBBMaaasi     ■     *>f->- 


"  rw 

■J — 

■U" ' 

" 

'II  '           1 

1 

— «— 

— II                  M 

'     I 

-     '» 

■  ■■  g  1 

FLY    AND    BASS    RODS. 

Each. 

No.  I.  3  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  all  Lancewood,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Full  Mounted,  Silk 
Ringed  and  Whipped,  with  Swelled  Wound  Butt,  2  Tips  and  Partition  Bag. 
Length,  10  to  io|  feet,  Weight  6£  to  8  ounces $6.00 

No.  2.     3  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings  .  8.00 

No.  3.  3  Piece,  Bass  or  Heavy  Trout  Fly  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and 
2  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Silk  Ringed  and 
Whipped,  Swelled  Wound  Butt,  Partition  Bag.  Length  10 J  to  11  feet,  Weight 
8  to  10  ounces 6.00 

No.  4.     3  Piece,  Bass  or  Heavy  Trout  Fly  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver 

Mountings 8.00 

No.  5.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Fly  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  2  Tips  of 
Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped,  Wound 
Butt,  Partition  Bag.     Length  11  to  u£  feet,  Weight,  10  to  14  ounces      .        .        .        6.00 

No.  6.     3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Fly  Rod,  same  as  above  with  tine  German  Silver  Mountings,  8.00 

No.  8.  3  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  all  Lancewood,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Full  German  Silver 
Mounted,  Solid  Reel  Plate,  Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped,  Swelled  Wound  Butt, 
2  Tips,  Bamboo  Tip  Case,  Partition  Bag.  Length  10  to  io£  feet,  Weight,  6J  to  8 
ounces 12.00 

No.  10.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Fly  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  2  Tips  of 
Lancewood,  Full  German  Silver  Mounted,  Solid  Reel  Plate,  Light  or  Dark  Color, 
Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped,  Swelled  Wound  Butt,  Bamboo  Tip  Case,  Partition  Bag. 

Length  io£  to  n£  feet,  Weight  8  to  13  ounces 12.00 

No.  12.  3  Piece.  Trout  Fly  Rod,  all  Lancewood,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Full  German  Silver 
Mounted,  Solid  Reel  Plate,  2  Middle  Joints  and  3  Tips,  Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped, 
Swelled  Wound  Butt,   Bamboo  Tip  Case,  Pariition  Bag.     Length  10  to  io|  feet, 

Weight  6^  to  8  ounces 15.00 

No.  14.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Fly  Rod,  second  Growth  Ash  Butt,  2  Middle  Joints  and  3  Tips  of 
Lancewood,  Full  German  Silver  Mounted,  Solid  Reel  Plate,  Light  or  Dark  Color, 
Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped,  Swelled  Wound  Butt,  Bamboo  Tip  Case,  Partition  Bag. 
Length  io£  to  n£  feet,  Weight  8  to  13  ounces 15.00 


46  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


No.  15.  4  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  and  Second  Joints  and  2 
Tips  of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Silk  Ringed  and  Whipped, 
Swelled  Wound  Butt,  Partition  Bag.    Length  n£  to  12  feet,  Weight  7  to  10  ounces       6.00 

No.  16.  4  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings      .        .        8.00 

No.  17.  3  Piece,  McGinnis  Black  Bass  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  2 
Tips  of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  or  Dark  Color,  Improved  Raised  Anti- 
friction Tie  Guides,  Silk  Whipped,  Wound  Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag.  Length 
io|  to  I ii  feet,  Weight  10  to  14  ounces 6.00 

No.  18.  3  Piece,  McGinnis    Black    Bass    Rod,   same   as   above  with   Fine   German    Silver 

Mountings 8.00 

No.  19.  3  Piece,  Henshall  Black  Bass  Rod,  second  Growth  Ash  Butt,  Middle  Joint  and  2  Tips 
of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  Color,  Anti-friction  Tie  Guides,  Silk  Whipped, 
Wound  Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag.     Length  S£  to  9  feet,  Weight  8  to  12  ounces     5.50 

No.  20.  3   Piece,   Henshall    Black   Bass   Rod,   same   as    above,   with   Fine   German  Silver 

Mountings 7.50 

No.  21.  4  Piece,  Bass  Rod,  Middle  Joint  and  2  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Hollow 

Butt,  Standing  Guides,  Partition  Bag.     Length  12  feet 5.00 

No.  22.  4  Piece,  Ba;s  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings   .        .        .  7.00 


BAIT  AND  TROLLING  RODS. 

No.  25.  3  Piece,  Mountain  Trout  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  2  Tips 
of  Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Light  Color,  Anti-friction  Standing  Tie  Guides,  Silk 
Whipped,  Wound  Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag.     Length  9^  to  10  feet,  Weight 

8£  to  12  ounces 5. 50 

No.  26.  3  Piece,  Mountain  Trout  Rod  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings,  7.50 

No.  27.  3  Piece,  Medium  Bait  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  Tip  of 
Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Raised  Guides,  Capped  Ferrules,  Swelled  Butt  below 

Reel,  Partition  Bag.      Length  10  to  io£  feet 3.75 

No.  28.  3  Piece,  Medium  Bait  Rod  same  as  above,  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings     .  5.00 

No.  29.  3  Piece,  Light  Trout  Bait  Rod,  Butt  of  second  Growth  Ash,  Middle  Joint  and  Tip  of 
Lancewood,  Full  Mounted,  Silk  Ringed,  Swelled  Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag. 

Length  9  to  9^  feet,  Weight  7^  to  Si  ounces 3.00 

No.  30.  3  Piece,  Light  Trout  Bait  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings         4.00 
No.  31.  3  Piece,  Trout  Bait  Rod,  Lancewood  Tip,  Full  Mounted,  Standing  Guides,  Swelled 

Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag.     Length  9  to  10  feet 2.75 

No.  32.  3  Piece,  Tro&t  Bait  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings        .  3.75 

No.  35.  3   Piece,  Medium  Trolling  or  Boat  Rod,  Lancewood  Tip,  Full  Mounted,  Standing 

Guides,  Swelled  Butt  below  Reel,  Partition  Bag.      Length  9J  feet    ....        3.50 
No.  36.  3  Piece,  Medium  Trolling  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  German  Silver  Mountings  5.00 

No.  37.  3  Piece,  Heavy  Newport  Bass  Rod,  Lancewood  Tip,  Full  Mounted,  Light  or  Dark 
Color,  Anti-friction  Double  Standing  Guides,  Heavy  Capped  and  Reinforced 
Ferrules,  Large  Swelled  and  Wound  Butt,  Partition  Bag.     Length  9  to  9^  feet      .        6.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  47 


No.  38.  3  Piece,  Heavy  Newport  Bass  Rod,  same  as  above  with  Fine  Heavy  German  Silver 

Mountings 8.00 

No.  40.  3  Piece,  Heavy  Newport  Bass  Rod,  Fine  finish,  Lancewood  Tip,  Full,  German  Silver 

Extra  Heavy  Mountings,  Solid  Reel  Plate,  Capped  and  Reinforced  Ferrules,  Anti-  i 

friction  Double  Standing  Guides,  Large  Swelled  and  Wound  Butt,  Partition  Bag. 
Length  9  to  g$  feet 12.00 

N.B. — All  the  above  Rods  are  made  by  hartdol  the  best  selected  Lancewood  and  Second  Growth 
Ash,  by  an  old  and  experienced  workman  and  fisherman,  whose  knowledge  of  the  business  as  well  as 
his  workmanship  cannot  be  excelled.  The  trimmings  are  the  best  there  can  be  obtained,  and  in  no 
case  is  the  wood  reduced  where  the  ferrules  are  fitted. 

WRIGHT  &  DITSON. 


H.    L.   LEONARD'S   CELEBRATED    SPLIT    BAMBOO    FISHING 

RODS. 

3  *  2 

Patent  Water  proof  Ferrule. 

No.  1  shows  Water-proof  Cup,  which  prevents  any  moisture  reaching  the  wood,  and  the  ferrule 
becoming  loose. 

No.  2  shows  Split  Ferrule,  which  strengthens  and  entirely  prevents  the  rod  breaking  where  the 
ferrule  joins  the  wood. 

No.  3  shows  the  Split  Ferrule  whipped  with  silk  as  it  appears  on  the  rod. 

Each. 
Light  Fly  Rod,  3  Piece,  Solid  German  Silver  Reel  Plate  and  Trimmings,  Extra  Tip  and  Tip 

Case.     Length  10  to  io£  feet ;  Weight  7  to  8|  ounces $30.00 

Heavy  Fly  Rod,  3  Piece,  Solid  German  Silver  Reel  Plate  and  Trimmings,  Extra  Tip  and  Tip 

Case.     Length  iof  to  11  feet ;  Weight  8£  to  10  ounces 30.00 

Black  Bass  Bait  and  Trolling  Rod,  3  Piece,  Solid  German  Silver  Reel  Plate  above  hand, 

Extra  Tip  and  Tip  Case 30.00 


WRIGHT   &   DITSON'S   SPLIT   BAMBOO   FISHING   RODS. 

Henshall  Black  Bass  Pattern,  3  Piece,  Solid  Metal  Reel  Plate,  Nickle  Plated  Trimmings, 
Anti-friction  Tie  Guides,  Silk  Whipped,  Hexagonal  Cap  and  Welt  Ferrules,  Extra 
Tip,  Partition  Bag.     Length  8£  to  9  feet $13.00 

Fly  Rod,  3  Piece,  Solid  Nickel  Plated  Reel  Plate,.and  German  Silver  Mountings,  Silk  Ringed 
and  Whipped,  Extra  Tip  and  Tip  Case,  Metal  Plugs  and  Partition  Bag.  Length 
Io£  to  u£  feet ;  Weight  7  to  10  ounces 18.00 


48  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


MISCELLANEOUS    FISHING   RODS. 


■■■pi — ■ 


aps 


Rod  No.  55. 


BAIT    AND    TROLLING   RODS. 

Each. 
No.  50.  3  Piece,  Bait  Rod,  Light  Color.     Length  io£  feet      ........  .25 

No.  51.  3  Piece,  Bait  Rod,  Line  Guides,  Light  Color.     Length  io|  feet        ....  .40 

No.  52.  3  Piece,  Bait  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  with  Line  Guides,  better  quality.     Length  12  feet  .50 

No.  53.  3  Piece,  Bait  Rod,  Double  Ferrule,  Stained  Dark,  with  Line  Guides.     Length  10J 

feet    ...  75 

No.  54.  3  Piece,  Trout  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Double  Ferrule,  with  Line  Guides  and  Capped 

Butt.     Length  12  feet •  85 

No.  55.  3  Piece,  Trout  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  with  Reel  Bands,  Double  Ferrule,  Capped  Butt, 

and  Line  Guides.     Length  12  feet #1.00 

No.  56.  3  Piece,  Bass  Rod,  Fine  Dark  Finish,  with  Reel  Bands,   Double  Ferrule,   Capped 

Butt,  and  Standing  Guides.    Length  io£  feet i  1.25 

No.  57.  3  Piece,  Mountain  Trout  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Double  Ferrules,  Reel  Bands,  Line 

Guides,  Capped  Butt,  Lance  wood  Tip.     Length  9^  feet 1.50 

No.  58.  4  Piece,  Bait  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Double  Ferrules,  Reel  Bands,  Capped  Butt,  Standing 

Guides,  Lancewood  Tip.     Length  12  feet .        1.65 

No.  59.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Rod,  Full  Mounted,  Lancewood  Tip,  Fine  Stained  Dark  Finish. 

Length  \o\  feet 1.75 

No.  60.  3  Piece,  Heavy  Bass  or  Trolling  Rod,  Full  Mounted,  Standing  Guides,  Lancewood 

Tip.     Length  9  feet 2.00 

No.  61.  3  Piece,  General  Bait  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Full  Mounted,  Lancewood  Tip.     Length 

12  feet * 2.00 

No.  62.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Rod,  Fine  Dark  Stained  Finish,  Full  Mounted,  Lancewood  Tip, 

Standing  Guides.     Length  ioi  feet 2.25 

No.  63.  4  Piece,  Pickerel  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Full  Mounted,  Standing  Guides,  Hollow  Butt, 

2  Tips  of  Lancewood.     Length  14  feet 2.50 

No.  64.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Rod,  Finely  Stained  and  Polished,  Full  Mounted,  Hollow  Butt, 

2  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Standing  Guides.     Length  io£  feet  ......        2.7 

No.  65.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Rod,  Handsomely  finished,  with  Nickel  Plated  Mountings,  and 

Partition  Bag,  in  other  respects  the  same  as  No.  64 3.50 

No.  66.  3  Piece,  Black  Bass  Rod,  Full  Mounted,  Patent   Reel   Seat  above  hand.      Nickel 

Plated,  Hollow  Butt,  2  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Standing  Guides,  Partition  Bag.Length 

ioi  feet 4.50 


5 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  49 

combination,  fly  and  trunk  rods. 

Eaoh. 

No.  75.  4  Piece,  Trout  Fly  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Full  Mounted,  3d  Joint  and  2  Tips  of.  Lance- 
wood,  Silk  Ringed,  Fine  Finish,  Partition  Bag.     Length  io£ feet        ....      3.00 

No.  80.  5  Piece,  Combination  Pickerel  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Full  Mounted,  Standing  Guides, 

2  Tips  of  Lancewood,  can  be  made  into  two  lengths,  13  and  16  feet  .        .        .      4  50 

No.  81.  4  Piece,  California  General  Rod,  Light  Color,  Long  Capped  Ferrules,  Full  Mounted, 
Hollow  Butt,  1  Joint  and  3  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Partition  Bag,  Fine  Finish,  can  be 
made  into  three  lengths,  from  10  to  13  feet »       .       .      6.00 

No.  82.  4  Piece,  California  General  Rod,  same  as  above,  Better  Finished  and  Nickel  Plated  .      7.00 

No.  85.  5  Piece,  Trunk  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Double   Ferrules,  Guides,  Reel  Bands,  1    Joint 

and  2  Tips  of  Lancewood.     Two  Lengths  8  and  10  feet  in  each  Rod  ....      2.00 

No.  86.  s  Piece,  Trunk  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Full  Mounted,  Hollow  Butt,  Patent  Reel  Seat, 
r  Joint  and  3  Tips  of  Lancewood,  Partition  Bag,  can  be  made  into  three  Lengths, 
8,  9  and  10  feet 400 

No.  87.  5  Piece,  Trunk  Rod,  Stained  Dark,  Finely  Finished,  Full  Mounted,  Capped  Fer- 
rules, Patent  Reel  Seat,  Nickel   Plated,  Swelled    Wound  Hollow  Butt,   Partition 

Bag,  can  be  made  either  8,  9  or  10  feet  long 5.00 

N.  B.  —  Rods  Nos.  80,  81,  82,  85,  86  and  87  are  made  with  interchangable  parts,  so  they  may  be 

made  into  either  Short  Troliing,  Medium  Bass,  or  Long,  Light  Bass  or  Trout  Rods. 


JOINTED    CALCUTTA    BAMBOO    RODS. 

No.  100.  3  Piece,  Double  Ferrules,  Capped  Butt  and  Line  Guides,  Varnished  Finish.  Length 

12  to  14  feet      .  .  ,    $1.00 

No.  101.  3  Piece,   Double  Ferrules,  Reel  Bands,  Capped  Butt  and  Line  Guides,  Varnished 

Finish.    Length  12  to  14  feet 1.215 

No.  102.  4  Piece,  Double  Ferrule,  Capped  Butt  and  Line  Guides,  Varnished  Finish.    Length 

14  to  18  feet 1.75 

No.  103.  4  Piece,  Double  Ferrules,  Reel  Bands,  Capped  Butt  and  Line  Guides,  Varnished 

Finish.     Length  14  to  18  feet 2.00 

No.  104.  4  Piece,  Double  Ferrules,  Reel  Bands,  Hollow  Capped  Butt,  Extra  Tip,  Line  Guides, 

Varnished  Finish.    Length  14  to  18  feet 2.75 

No.  105.  3  Piece,  Boston  Bass   Rod,  Full  Mounted,  Short  Cane  Wound  Ash  Butt,  Bamboo 

Middle  Joint  and  Tip,  Standing  Tie  Guides,  Silk  Whipped,  Fine  Finish.     Length 

9i  feet 2.75 

No.  106.  3  Piece,  Boston   Bass  Rod,  same  as  above   but  better  finished  and  Nickel  Plated 

Mountings 3.75 


Rigged  Cod  Lines,  168  ft.  long    --- $1.00      u 

"       Perch  "       4S  "     "            .25      " 

Wooden  Cod  Reels      .-----..-.-.10" 

"        Perch   " .05      " 

Linen  Ball  Lines,  200  yards  to  the  ball  for  rigging  pickerel  traps,  etc.        -  .50  per  ball. 

Pickerel  Traps        ..--._.-...  i.5operdoz. 

4 


5o 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


FISHING    REELS. 

All  our  Reels  are  hand-made  by  the  best  mechanics  and  put  together  with  screws,  so  they  may 
be  taken  apart  if  necessary.  The  metal  is  the  best  "cold  rolled,"  not  common  "  sheet,"  and  the 
rubber  is  of  best  quality  and  finely  polished. 


PLAIN    SINGLE    BRASS    REELS,    POLISHED. 

NOS.  20        21         22         23         24 

Capacity 15       25      40       60      80  yards. 

Trice  50     160    .70      .80    .90  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

SINGLE    BRASS    REELS,    POLISHED,  BALANCE   S    SHAPE    HANDLE. 

Nos. 31  32        33  34 

Capacity 25  40         60  80  yards. 

Price           .85  .95    $1.05  #1.15  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

SINGLE    BRASS    REELS,    POLISHED,  BALANCE    S    SHAPE    HANDLE    AND 

STOP. 

Nos-  51  52        53       54 

Capacity 25         40       60       80  yards. 

Price  95  $1.05  $1.15  $1.25  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

BRASS    MULTIPLYING  REELS. 

Polished  and  Creased,  with  Balance  Handle  and  Drag. 

Nos.  ---.-....       2u        212       213        214 

Capacity  -----.._  25  40  60  80  yards 

Price  --.._._._    $1.75     $2.00     $2.25     $2.50  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


5i 


FINE   BRASS    CLICK    REELS,    POLISHED    AND    CREASED. 


Nos. 

Capacity 

Price 


------        61         62         63         64 

-.-.-.         25        40        60        80  yards. 

------    $1.00  $1.10   $1.20  $1. 30  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


FINE    BRASS   AND    RUBBER    CLICK    REELS. 


Nos. 

Capacity 

Price 


101       102       103       104       105 
-        -        -        -        -  25         40        60        80       100  yards. 

$1.50    $1.75   $2.00    $225    $2.50  each. 
Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


EXTRA    FINE    NICKEL   AND    RUBBER    CLICK    REELS. 
With  Metal  Safety  Band. 


Nos. 

Capacity 

Piice 


Nos. 

Capacity 

Price 


141       142       143       J44 

-  25         40         60         80 

, $3-S°    U-°°  #4- 5°  $5-0° 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

EXTRA    FINE,   NICKEL   PLATED,    CLICK    REELS. 
Raised  Pillars,  Flush  Handles. 


145 

100  yards. 
5.50  each. 


172 

m 

174 

175 

40 

60 

80 

100 

yards 

.50 

$4 

00 

$4.50  $5 

.00 

each. 

Sent  by^  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


52  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


EXTRA  FINE    RUBBER  AND   NICKELED   CLICK,  REELS. 

Raised  Pillars,  Flush  Handles  and  Patent  Index  Click, 

Making  either  a  free  running  or  a  click  reel,  as  desired,  same  as  Patent  Perfection  Reel.' 

Nos.              - i02£        193^        I94i  1954 

Capacity            .-...._                40            60            80  100  yards. 

Price                      $5.50    ^'$6.00  i^.50  $7.00  each. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


EXTRA    FINE   BRASS    MULTIPLYING   REELS. 

Finely  Polished,  with  Oil  Cap  and  Adjustable  Click. 

Nos.  -        -         232        233        234        235  /      236        237        238        239 

Capacity  40  60  So         100         150         200         250         300  yards. 

Price  -        -       $3.50     $3.75     $4.00     $4.25     #4.75     $5.00     $5.25      $5.50  each. 

Nickel  Plating,  extra  ------------        75c. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


53 


"PATENT    PERFECTION:" 

Central  Action,  Raised  Pillar,  Treble  Multiplying  Reel,  Flush  Handle  and  Patent 

Index  Click. 

This  Reel  multiplies  from  the  centre,  and  is  the  only  multiplier  which  can  be  used  successfully  in 
fly  or  minnow  casting,  as  the  handle  does  not  revolve  beyond  the  side  of  the  reel,  consequently  the 
line  cannot  catch.  The  handle  is  also  protected  by  a  raised  band,  inside  of  which,  and  beneath  the 
handle,  is  the  Patent  Index,  by  which  it  may  be  changed  in  a  second  from  a  free  running  Multiplying 
to  a  Click  Multiplying  or  vice  versa. 

Capacity.  Nickel  Plated.  Rubber  and  Nickel. 

40  yards       ------  $5.50  each.         ------      $8.00  each. 

60     "  6.00     "  8.50     " 

80     " 6.50     " 9.50     " 

100     "  -  7.00     "  -----  10.50     " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


FINE    BRASS    MULTIPLYING   REELS. 

Polished,  with    Oil  Cap. 

Nos.  .        .        _        222 

Capacity  -        -  40 

Price  -  $2.50 

TTd Nickel  Plating,   Extra 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price 


2   223 

224     225 

226 

227 

228 

229 

J    60 

80     100 

I50 

200 

250 

300  yards. 

3   $2.75 

$3.00   $3.25 

$3-75 

$4.00 

$4.25 

$4.5o^each. 
75C 

54 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


[THE   "BLACK    BASS"   MULTIPLYING   REEL. 

Fine  Rubber  and  German  Silver,  Raised  Disk,  Adjustable  Click,  Steel  Pivot. 


Nos. 

Capacity 

Price 


383         384         385        386 

60  80         100         150  yds. 

-    $11.00  $12.00  $13.00  $14.00  each. 
Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


FISHING    LINES. 

LAID     LINES. 

Best  quality  hand-Iiid  Linen  Lines,  in  hanks,  of  the  following  colors,  Drab,  Brown,  White, 
Mixed  and  Purple. 


^- ...•>—. 


Nos. 
iSft.   j 


BBgSBMMSHHBWWHBaHHB^jBBSaaga     3^  ft. 


0 

1 

2 

3 

•o.S 

.05 

.06 

each. 

.40 

•50 

.60 

per  doz. 

.10 

.10 

.12 

each. 

.80 

#1.00 

*i 

.20 

per  doz. 

.12 

•J5 

.18 

each. 

Exact  Sizes  of  Hand- 
Laid  Linen  Lines. 


96  ft.    J 


1. 10       1.40       1.80  per  doz. 

.24        .30         .36        each- 

2.20      2.80      3.60  per  doz. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  55 


EXTRA    FINE    LAID    LINEN    REEL,    OR   CUTTYHUNK    BASS    LINES. 

These  lines  are  made  of  the  best  Irish  Flax,  spun  especially  for  this  purpose,  and  for  strength 
and  durablity  are  unparalleled. 

Nos.        ------  9  12  15  18  2i  24  thread. 

150  ft. .63  .63  .68  .75  .83  .88  each. 

3ooft- $1.25  $1.25  $1.35  $1.50  $1.65  $1.75       " 

600  ft. 2.50  2.50  2.70  3.00  3.30  3.50       " 

9ooft. 3.75  3.75  4.05  4.50  4.95  5.25       " 

HAWSER    LAID    COTTON    COD    OR    BLUEFISH    LINES. 

In  Coils  of  84  Feet,  4  Connected. 
Nos.  5  and  6    -------------        .25  each 

"     7  and  8 .30      " 


BRAIDED    LINES. 


^'^^^s^^M^M.Hm&iA^^^^sm^^  p; 


3 


OF 

Braided  Lines. 


1 


BRAIDED    COTTON    HAND    LINES. 

In  Hanks  of  84  Feet,  2  Connected. 

No.  1 35c.  each.        No.  3 25c.  each. 

No.  2 30c.    "  No.  4 20c.      " 

BRAIDED    COTTON    COD    LINES. 
150   ft.  Coils .75  each. 

BEST    BRAIDED    LINEN    LINES. 

On  Blocks,  50  yards,  2  connected.  Nos.  B,  C,  D,  E,  F,  G.    -    -    65c.  per  50  yards. 

HARD   BRAIDED    LINEN    TROLLING    LINES. 
In  Coils,  50  yards,  2  connected.     Nos.  I,  2,  3,  4.  5«    '        '        "         _        ^^  Per  5°  yards. 

BRAIDED   SILK    LINES. 

On  Blocks,  50  Yards,  2  Connected. 
Nos.        -        -        •        -        B.  C.  D.  E.  F.  G. 

Price  -        -        -        $3.50      $3.00        $2.50       $2.00        $1.50        $1.25  per  50  yards. 


56  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 

extra  quality  braided  silk  lines. 

On  Blocks,   50  Yards,  2  Connected. 

Nos. C.  D.  E.  F. 

Price $3.25        $2.75        $2.25      $1.75  per  50  yards. 

OILED    BRAIDED    SILK    LINES. 

In  Coils,  25  Yards,  4  Connected. 

Nos. C.  D.  E.  F.  G. 

Price  -  $1.50        $1.25         #1.00  .75  .65  per  25  yards. 

BEST     QUALITY     ENAMELLED     WATER-PROOF      BRAIDED      SILK      FLY 

LINES. 

Water-proofing  Rubbed  In  and  Polished. 

20  yards.         25  yards.         30  yards.         40  yards.         50  yards. 

No.  E        -        -        -        -  #1.80  $2.25  $--7S  $3-6°  $4-50     each. 

"     F  ...        1.60  2.00  2.50  3.25  " 

"    G*  -        -        -    1.20  1.50  1.80  2.40  " 

*This  size  is  not  tapered,  as  it  is  a  very  light  line  throughout. 

BEST    QUALITY    ENAMELLED   WATER-PROOF    BRAIDED    SILK    SALMON 

LINES. 

Nos. B.  C.            D. 

100  yards            _........      $11.50  $10.00  $9.00  each. 

120     "              _......_..  13.75  12.00  10.80     " 

All  Lines  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

FISH    HOOKS. 

SUPERFINE    LIMERICK    HOOKS. 
Ringed  or  Flatted. 

Nos.         -        -        -        -         1  to  12     1-0     2-0    3-0    4-0    5-0    6-0    7-0    8-0    9-0      10-0 
Price  ...  ,05     .10     .10     .10    .10    .15     .15     .15     .15     .20        .20  per  doz. 

Price        -  .20     .25     .30     .35     .40    .45     .50    .60     .70     .90  $1.00  per  100. 

'100  above  Hooks,  assorted  sizes,  for  all  kinds  of  fishing    .--..-        30c. 

SUPERFINE     KIRBY     HOOKS. 

Ringed  or  Flatted. 

Nos.  -        -        -        -        1  to  12     1-0    2-0    3-0    4-0  5-0    6-0    7-0    8-0    9-0     10-0 

Price      -        -        -  .05    .10    .10    .10    .10  .15    .15    .15     .15     .20      .20    per  doz. 

Price  -  .20     .25     .30    .35     .40  .45     .50    .60    .70    .90  $1.00  per  100. 

100  above  Hooks,  assorted  sizes,  for  all  kinds  of  fishing    --.---         30c 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


57 


HARRISON'S    CELEBRATED    SPRING    STEEL    CARLISLE    KIRBY    HOOKS. 

Marked,  Ringed  or  Flatted. 


Nos. 
Price 
Price 


4  to  6        3      2        i     i-o     2-0     3-0     4-0    5-0     6-0     7-0 

.15     .15     .15     .20     .20      .20     .20       .20     .25      .25     .30  per  doz. 
■55     -55    -6°    -65     -75     -8o     -9°  $i.oo$i.is  $1.30  $1.50  per  100 


Nos. 
Price 
Price 


CENTRAL    DRAUGHT    COD    HOOK. 

Eyed  or  Flatted. 


15 

14 

13 

12 

.10 

•15 

.18 

.20  per  doz. 

•75 

•95 

51.20 

51.50  "  gross 

No.  6283 
"    62S2 


LONG    SHANK    BLUE    FISH    HOOKS. 

Eyed  or   Flatted. 

.05  each  ;  .35  per  doz.;   $3.50  per  gross. 

.05     "         .40    "      "  4.00    "       " 

All  Hooks  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


SNELLED    FISH    HOOKS. 
HARRISON'S 


Celebrated  Spring  Steel  Sproat  Hooks. 

Nos. -        -        -  1  to  12     1-0  2-0    3-0  4-0    5-0    6-0 

Single  Gut          ......  .30     .35  .40     .45  .50                     per  doz. 

Double  Gut .50    .55  .60    .65  .70    .75    .85      "      " 

HARRISON'S     CELEBRATED    SPRING  STEEL     KENDAL  SNECK     HOOKS. 

Nos.           -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -  1  to  10     1 -o  2-0     3-0  4-0     5-0     6-0 

Single  Gut .30     .35  .40    .45  .50                     per  doz. 

Double  Gut    -        -        -        -        -        -        -  .50    .55  .60    .65  .70    .75     .85      "      " 

1 

HARRISON'S    CELEBRATED    SPRING  STEEL    CARLISLE    KIRBY    HOOKS. 

Nos.    -        - -  1  to  61-0  2-0     3-0  4-0     5-0     6-0 

Single  Gut     -------  .30     .35  .40    .45  .50                     per  doz. 

Double  Gut .50    .55  .60    .65  .70    .75     .85      "      " 

Silk  Gimp .45     .50  .55     .60  .65     .70    .80      "      " 


58  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BEST    SPRING    STEEL    HOLLOW    POINT    LIMERICK  HOOKS. 

Nos.     -        -        - 1  to  10     1-0     2-0     3-0    4-0  5-0     6-0 

Single  Gut .25     .30    .35     .40    .45  per  doz. 

Double  Gut -            .50    .55    .60    .65     .70  .75     .85       "      " 

Silk  Gimp        ._....-                .45     .50    .55     .60     .65  .70    .80      •      " 


MISCELLANEOUS    SNELLED    FISH    HOOKS. 

Harrison's  Aberdeen  Smelt  Hooks,  on  Single  Gut,  Nos.  1  to  6    -        -        -        -        .25  per  doz. 

Best  Virginia  Hooks,  on  Linen  Line  Nos.  <  * 

lC    "    D .30     "      " 

Best  Central  Draught  Cod  Hooks,  on  Linen  Line  Nos.  13  and  14  -        -  .50     "      " 

Harrison's  O'Shaughnessy  Hooks,  Nickel  Plated,  on  Piano  Wire,  Nos.  5-0  to  10-0    #1.50     "      " 

All  Hooks  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

MIST    COLORED    LEADERS    OR    CASTING    LINES. 

(All  of  our  Leaders  are  of  the  very  best  quality). 

Trout  Bass  and  Salmon  Leaders,  Sincle  Gut. 

1  yard  Best  Trout       .....--_..-_        .15  each. 


"     Salmon 


-30 

Bass        -.--_-......  .20 

-40 

-25 

.50 

Extra  Heavy  Salmon         ------.._.  ,40 

" -75 

"          "            " $1.10 


Bass  and  Salmon  Leaders,  Double  Gur. 

1  yard  Best  Heavy .30  each. 

2  "       "  4< .60     " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

SILK    WORM    GUT. 

No.  1.  Good  Trout .50  per  100. 

"    2.  Fine  Heavy  Trout ,75  "      " 

"    3.     "     Black  Bass $1.00 

"    4.  Good  Salmon 1.50  " 

"    5.  Heavy  Salmon 2.00  " 

"    6.  Extra  Heavy,  Double  Thick,  Salmon  .......  4.00  " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


«      t> 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


59 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    FULL    LENGTH    FLY    BOOK. 

With  the  Improved  Hyde  Clip,  which  holds  each  fly  separately  and  at  full  length. 


N).  2.  Flexible  Russia,  yh  inches  long,  to  hold  8  dozen  flies $2.75 

"    3.         "       Morocco,  yh  inches  long,  to  hold  6  dozen  flies 2.25 

"    5.         "        Morocco,  64  inches  long,  to  hold  3  dozen  flies 1.25 

'.'    7.         "        Russia,  84  inches  long,  to  hold  8  dozen  flies 4.00 

(No.  7  is  suitable  for  large  Bass  Flies.) 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    TACKLE    BOOKS    FOR    ALL    KINDS    OF    FISHING. 

No.  10.   Fine  Sheep,  Round  Corners,  Lined  with  Canvas  and  Stitched  with  Silk,  Contains  9 

Pockets.     Size  6\  x  3J  inches 75 

No.  12.   Fine  Morocco,  Round  Corners,  Lined  with  Canvas  and  Stitched  with  Silk,  with  strap, 

Contains  7  Pockets,  Very  Strong.     Size  64  x  3!  inches     .  $1.00 

No.   13.  Fine  Morocco,  same  as  No.  12,  except  better  made  and  contains  9  Pockets  -         -    1.25 

No.  15.    Fine  Calf  inside  and  out,  with  Strap,  a  very  handsome  and  durable  book,  contains  11 

Pockets,  size  6  by  3^  inch      - 2.00 

No.  16.    Fine  Calf,  same  as  No.  15,  except  larger  and  better,  size  7  by  34  inch       ...        2.50 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


6o 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


ARTIFICIAL     FLIES. 
All  Tied  on  Harrison's  Best  Spring  Steel  Sproat  Hooks. 

Small  Trout .5operdoz. 

"         •'       Best  Quality,  Reversed  Wing $1.00  " 

Main  Trout  or  Small  Bass,  Reinforced  Gut 1.50  " 

Lake  Trout,  Best,  Reversed  Wing 2  00  " 

Bass,  Best,  Reinforced  Gut 2.00  " 

"         "             "             "     Reversed  Wing 2.50  " 

Trolling  Bass  Flies,  Best  Quality 3.00  " 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


Salmon  Flies  Tied  to  Order. 


The  following  are  some  of  the  leading  named  varieties  of  Flies  that  we  keep  in  stock  :  — 


Professor, 
Yellow  May, 
Covvdung, 
Black  Gnat, 
Governor, 
Hawthorn, 
Alder, 
Seth  Green, 
Ferguson, 
Silver  Doctor, 
Wood  Duck, 


Green  Drake, 

Gray  Drake, 

Land  Rail, 

Montreal, 

Jenny  Lind, 

Scarlet  Ibis, 

Coachman, 

Alexandra, 

Richardson, 

Captain, 

Rangely, 


Red  Ant, 
Cinnamon, 
White  Miller, 
Blue  Blow, 
Fire  Ant, 
Wasp, 
Stone  Fly, 
Jungle  Cock, 
Red  Fox, 
Stone, 
Holberton, 


Grizzle  King, 

Whitney, 

A  bbey, 

Imbrie, 

Murray, 

Canada, 

Ibis  and  White, 

Bee. 


MINNOW    GANGS. 


In  sizes  suitable  for'Lake  Trout,  Black  Bass  and  Pickerel  Trolling. 
Heavy  Twisted  Gut,  3  set  Treble  Hooks,  Sliding  Lip  Hook,  2  Swivels 

"      Silk  Gimp,  "  "  "  "  »«  - 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


•75 
•50 


SNAP   AND    CATCH   'EM,    SPRING    FISH    HOOKS. 


3  Sizes 15  each. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


61 


ARTIFICIAL    BAITS. 

BEST    QUALITY    CALEDONIAN    MINNOWS. 
For  Trout,  Black  Bass  and  Pickerel.     All  mounted  with  the  best  Spring  Steel  Treble  Hooks. 


Nos. 
Price 


i^xacc  aize  ot  ..No.  4. 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5       6         7  8  9  10 

.75  .So     .90  $1.00  $1.15  $1.25     $1.35  each. 

THE    CELEBRATED    PHANTOM  MINNOW. 


These  Minnows  are  the  best  taking  bait  in  the  market  for  Trout,  Bass  or  Pickerel.  They  are  in- 
destructible, being  made  of  silk,  rubber  coated,  which  gives  to  the  fish  as  soon  as  struck,  but  will 
resume  its  former  shape  as  soon  as  released. 

Nos. I,  2,  3,  4  5,  6  7,   8  9,   10 

Price  .75  $1.00  $1.25  $1.50  each. 

Minnows  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

THE    HELGAMITE,    OR    DOBSON'S    BLACK    BASS  BAIT. 


Sizes,  Small,  Medium  and  Large 


By  mail,  50c.  each. 


SOFT    RUBBER    FROGS. 

Handsomely  Colored  and  Very  Taking. 


No.  1.  Black^Bass^size   - 
"    2.  Pickerel  size 


By  mail,  35c.  each. 
"  50c.     " 


CHAPMAN'S    TROUT,    BASS   AND    PERCH   SPOONS. 
On  CAkDs. 


ifig  \ 


No.  4  Trout  Spoons,  with  Fly,  on  Gut 
4    9.  Black  Bass  or  Perch  Spoons,  Treble  Hooks] 


30c.  ea 
30c.     " 


62 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


HILL'S    PATENT   MINNOW    SHAPED    BAITS. 


So  constructed  as  to  revolve  free,  (whether  trolling  fast  or  slow) ;  protect  the  hooks  from  weeds, 
and  close  flat  when  struck  by  a  fish,  thus  bringing  him  in  direct  contact  with  the  hooks. 

l       2h      2       2i      3      34     4  5 

-5°     -6o     .70     .75     .75     .80    .90     $1.00  each. 


Nos. 
Price 


CHAPMAN'S,    DOUBLE    KILBY,  BASS    SPOON. 

Exceedingly  Attractive  for  Bass  or   Pickerel. 


Exact  size    of   cut 


65c  each 


SKINNER'S    KIDNEY   FLUTED    TROLLING   SPOONS. 

Especially  Adapted  for  Heavy  Lake  or  Florida  Fishing. 


No.  15. 


Nos. 
Price 


14         15     16         17     18 

.50  .65  .75     each. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  63 

chapman's  minnow  propellers. 

For  Bass,    Pike,   Pickerel  and  Muscalonge. 

-.■^m^Kms=^M^^  THERES, 

Nos 5      4        3        2        1        1-0 

Price .50    .60     .70     .So     .93     $1.00  each. 

SKINNER'S   OVAL    FLUTED   TROLLING  SPOONS. 


Nos- 1     2    3    4    44    4l        5    6        7     8 

Pnce .50  -65  .75  each. 

CHAPMAN'S   NO.   o   BLACK   BASS    SPOON. 

ill!  *'"M 

Exact  size  of  cut     ......        ........        50c.  each. 


64 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


CHAPMAN'S  ALLURE    BASS   BAITS. 


Nos. 
Price 


3         2        i       i-o      2-0 

.60     .60     .70     .80     .90  each. 


TREBLE    HOOKS,   FEATHERED   AND    EYED,   FOR  ABOVE  BAITS. 


Nos. 
Price 


3        2       1        1-0    2-0     3-0    4-0    50      6-0 
.15     .15     .15      .15    .15     ,15     .15    .20      .20  each. 


Nos. 
Price 


Mcdonald  spoons,  kidney  pattern. 

3    4        5    6        7 


•3° 


.40  .45   each. 


WRIGHT   &    DITSON'S    PICKEREL   SPOONS. 

Nos.  3,  4,   5  and  6----------- 


25  each. 


JAMES'   BLUE    FISH   AND    FLORIDA    SPINNERS. 

Steel  Swivels,  Wire  Gauge. 

Single  Hook    ------ .75   each. 

Treble  Hooks .75       " 

Single  Hook,  Large  Heavy  Blue  Fish  - $1.25        " 


PURE    BLOCK   TIN    SQUIDS,    BURNISHED. 

For  Blue  Fish,  Weak  Fish,  Spanish  Mackerel,  Dolphin,  Etc. 


Nos. 
Price 


01234567 
.10  .15  .15  .20  .25  .35   ,45  .55  each. 


MACKEREL   TACKLE. 

Best  Sea  Island  Cotton  Lines,  84  feet  coils 15  each. 

"  "  "  "  "         Tarred 20     " 

Block  Tin  Jigs,  assorted  sizes,  with  best  Drop  Point  Hooks .40  per  doz. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


65 


NETS   AND   LANDING  GEAR. 


WOOD   NET    RINGS. 


Each. 


No.  1. 
"     2. 

Either 


No.  3. 

"  4- 

"  5- 

"  6. 

"  7. 


Screw  Off,  Short  Ash  Handle $1.25 

Jointed  Ash  Handle 1.75 

of  the  above,  complete  with  20  inch  Net,  additional .75 

BRASS    NET    RINGS,    WITH    BAMBOO    STAFFS. 

Each. 

Plain  Staff,  3  ft.  long,  screw  off  ring $1.50 

Jointed  Staff,  full  mounted,                  4  ft.  long,  screw  off  ring 1. 75 

"             "....-.  2.50 

2-75 

"             " 3.00 


1  hinge,  4       "  " 

2  "         4       "  " 

3  4      " 

BRASS   NET  RINGS. 


No.    8. 

"  9. 

"  10. 

"  11. 

"  12. 


Plain,  to  drive  .       .       . 

"       screw  off,  with  socket 
1  Hinge        "  " 


Each 

$  -75 
1. 00 

i.2S 
1.50 

1-75 


MISCELLANEOUS    NET    RINGS   AND    STAFFS. 

Boys.  Galvanized  Ring  and  Jointed  Bamboo  Staff $1.00 

Butterfly.     Brass  "  "  "  "  1.25 

Butterfly        "  "    not       "  »«  •«  IiO0 

LANDING,  DIP   OR   SHRIMP   NETS. 

Made  ok  Best  Quality  Linen. 

,  12     14     16     18     20     24     30      36       48 

.30    .40    .50    .65    .75    .85  $1.00  #1.25  $2.00 


Inches         , 
Price,  each 


LINEN 

MINNOW 

Mounted. 

SEINES. 

Feet 

:  deep 
running 

3* 
.68 

4 

•75 

4i 
•83 

5 
.90 

51    .6 
•95  *i. 

Per 

•      • 

.       .        .60 

00 

66 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


PATENT    ADJUSTABLE    FLOATS. 


Exact  Size  of  No.  200. 

Patent  Adjustable  Enamelled  Floats  are  a  great  improvement  upon  anything  before 
used  for  this  purpose,  and  are  thoroughly  water-proof.  They  can  be  attached  and  detached  at  will 
without  knotting  or  tying  the  line,  or  removing  the  bait  or  hook. 

Nos. 150         200         225         250         300 

Price .  .  .08  .10  .12  .15         .20 


PATENT    ADJUSTABLE    SINKERS. 

Nos o,  1,  2  3,  4  5.  6  7,  8   9,   10 

Perdoz.        .       .  .25       .30     .40     .50      .75 

BEST    BOUND    CORK  FLOATS. 

Egg  Shaped. 

Inches \\      \\      i\      2.      2\ 

Each 10     .12     .15   .20    .30 

SWIVELS. 
Brass  and  Steel  Box  or  Hook. 
Nos.  .     3-0      2.0      1-0      1  to  10 

Perdoz.         .       .       .       $1.00    .75      .65         .50 


Nos. 
Ozs. 
Price 


DEEP    SEA   LEADS. 


I 

2 

3 

4 

S67 

8 

9 

2* 

3 

6i 

8 

12^     15^    244 

32 

62 

•5 

.6 

.8 

.10 

.12     .18     .25 

•35 

.60 

POCKET    SCALES    FOR   WEIGHING   FISH. 


Parker's  Pocket  Scale,  weighing  from  2  ozs.  to 
8  lbs.,  each  by  mail 25c. 

Novelty  Pocket  Scale,  weighing  from  2  ozs.  to 
15  lbs.,  each  by  mail        ....      50c. 


THE   MOSQUITO    HEAD    NET. 

This  Net  is  of  inestimable  value  to   fishermen  and   hunters,  especially  when  attacked  by  Black 
Flies,  Gnats,  Mosquitoes  and  other  insects  of  torture;  can  be  carried  in  the  coat  pocket. 
Price     .        • $1.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


67 


HINDS'    BLACK    FLY    CREAM. 

For  repelling  Flies,  Mosquitoes,  Midges,  and  other  insects.     No  Tar.     No  Stain. 

By  mail,  postpaid .  .25 

Split  Shot-wood  Boxes .10 

"   Nickel  Plated  Boxes .15 

TROUT    BASKETS. 

Lbs. 

No.  o      .                            7          ...  .80 

"    I                                 9              •  $1.00 

"    a     .       •      .         12         ...  1.2c 

"3          .                    20             .  1.40 

"   4     •       •       .         25         ...  1.75, 

*■   PATENT  FOLDING  CANVAS  TROUT 
BASKETS,  WITH  STRAPS. 

Each             ....      $2.00    #2.25  $2.25 

§j|F      Nps  ...  ABC 

Lbs.  capacity     ...           12          20  25 


Minnow  Car. 


Sectional  View  of  Pail. 


RUDOLPH'S    PATENT   MINNOW    PAIL. 

The  Pail  is  made  of  heavy  tin,  handsomely  painted.  The  Minnow  Car  is  constructed  of  strong 
galvanized  wire  that  will  not  rust,  and  has  an  air  tight  chamber  on  cover  so  that  the  car  may  be 
thrown  overboard  and  will  not  sink  or  allow  the  bait  to  escape.  The  best  and  cheapest  minnow  pail 
in  the  market. 

Each. 
6  Quart $1.75 


2.25 
2.50 


68 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BAIT    BOXES. 

Nicely  Painted  in  Red,  Blue  and  Green. 


Crescent  Shape.     25c. 


Ketchum.     15c. 


Oval  Shape. 


Bait  Box  Straps,  leather  covered  buckles 
Trout  Basket  Straps,  leather  and  web 
Patent  Left  Shoulder  Basket  Strap 


15c. 

Each. 
30  cents. 

35     " 
60     " 


TACKLE    CASES. 


Made  of  Tin,  with  the  most  convenient  comportments  for  all  kinds  of  Tackle,  handsomely 
painted. 

Each. 
No.  1.     9     inches  long,  7     inches  wide,  3     inches  deep         .        .        .        .        .       .        .        .      $2.50 

"    2.   12  "8  ".        4i  "  '      o 

"    3-  i5*  «■       10  5*  5-o° 

All  anglers  will  acknowledge  that  the  most  vexatious  thing  that  can  happen  to  them  is  to  have 
their  Spoons,  Hooks,  Lines,  etc.,  all  tangled  up;  these  cases  will  prevent  any  such  disaster,  as  they  are 
so  arranged  that  even  the  most  careless  fisherman  can  keep  his  tackle  in  shape.  They  ate  made  of  the 
very  best  material,  handsomely  ornamented,  and  furnished  with  lock  and  key. 


EXCELSIOR    BAIT    PAILS. 

For  Live  Bait.  This  Pail  is  substantially  made  of  heavy  tin  and  handsomely  Japanned.  The 
inside  pail  can  be  removed  and  placed  in  the  water  the  same  as  a  "fish  car,"  thus  keeping  the  bait 
alive  for  an  indefinite  time.  The  pan  which  fits  in  the  inside  pail  can  be  raised  and  lowered,  thus 
affording  an  easy  selection  of  bait  without  wetting  the  hand.  The  bait  is  kept  alive  during  transpor 
tation  (the  critical  time),  by  the  continuous  flowing  of  the  water  through  the  perforations,  thus  causing 
a  never  failing  supply  of  fresh  air. 

"  Each. 

Price,  8  Quart $2.50 

"    12  Quart 3.25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


69 


WADING    OR    FISHING    STOCKINGS. 

Wading  Stockings  on  ordinary  black  rubber,  weighing  2  lbs.  per  pair  $4.50 
Best  English  Mackintosh  Water-proof  Wading  Stocking,  per  pair  .  8.00 
Wading  Stockings  are  far  superior  to  rubber  boots  as  they  are  very  much 
lighter  in  wejght,  more  pliable,  and  can  be  turned  inside  out  to  dry  the 
moisture  caused  by  perspiration.  Can  be  worn  with  a  hob  nailed  shoe  to 
protect  the  feet  and  prevent  slipping. 

FISHING   COATS. 

Light  weight,  made  of  good  quality  duck,  dead  grass  color.     Just  the 

thing  for  a  fisherman.     Send  chest  measure.     Price  each    .        .        .    $1.75 


REEL    CASES. 

No.  132.  Made  of  heavy  bridle  leather,  for  bass  reel 
No.  133.  Made  of  heavy  bridle  leather,  for  small  reel 


•    $300 
2.50 


Fishing  Stockings. 


ROD    CASES. 

No.  130.  Made  of  heavy  bridle  leather,  with  handle  for  single  bass 

rod $5iOO 

No.  131.  Made  of  heavy  bridle  leather,  for  single  fly  rod     .        .        .  4.00 


BOOKS  ON    FISHING    AND    HUNTING. 


FLY-FISHING  IN  MAINE.     Cloth $1.25 

ANGLING;  or,  How  to  Angle,  and  where  to  Go.     Fully  illustrated .50 

TROLLING ;  or,  Pike,  Salmon,  and  Trout  Fishing.      With  directions  on  the  selection  of  • 

hooks,  etc.     Fully  illustrated 50 

BOTTOM  OR  FLOAT  FISHING.     With  suggestions  on  the  necessary  outfit.     Fully  illus- 
trated       50 

FLY-FISHING  AND  WORM-FISHING,  for  Salmon,  Trout,  and  Grayling 50 

FISHING  WITH  HOOK  AND  LINE  ;  a  Manual  for  Anglers,  64  pages.     Illustrated        .        .25 
FISH  AND  FISHING  of  the  United  States  and  North  America.     Cloth       ....  2.50 

HOW  TO  HUNT  AND  TRAP.     By  Jos   H.  Batty.     Cloth 1  50 

SCIENTIFIC  ANGLER.     By  W.  C.  Harris.     Cloth 1.50 

FISHING  IN  AMERICAN  WATERS.     By  Genio  C.  Scott.     Cloth 2.50 

BOOK  OF  THE  BLACK  BASS.     By  J.  A.  Henshall,  M.D.     Cloth 3.00 

FUR,  FIN  AND  FEATHER.     Containing  all  the  game  laws  of  each  State  in  the  Union       .      .50 
Any  of  the  above  books  sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price. 


70 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


CAMPING    OUTFITS. 


TENTS. 


OUR    LAWN    AND    CAMPING    TENTS 


are  strongly  and  neatly  made.     Each  Tent  is  furnished  with  poles,  guys,  and  pins  complete,  and 
packed  in  a  strong  canvas  bag  convenient  for  transportation. 


Cur  No.  i. 


Cut  No.  2. 


Cut  No.  1  illustrates  the  "A"  tent  with  ridge  rope  which  maybe  set  without  the  use  of  tent 
poles,  as  illustrated  in  cut,  thereby  saving  the  inconvenience  of  carrying  poles  where  transportation 
is  difficult.     Cut  No.  2  illustrates     A"  tent  set  up  with  poles. 


"A"    OR    COMMON    TENT. 

6  x  6  feet Drill  $6.00 Stripe  or  Duck,  #7.50 

6x9    " "      7.00 tt  u  a  9  so 

7x7    " "      7.50 "  "  "  11.00 

7x9" "      8.50 "  "  "  1300 

9x9    " "925 "  "  "  14.50 

Prices  for  "  A  "  either  with  ridge  rope  or  poles  are  the  same. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


7i 


WALL    OR    CAMPING    TENT. 


Price. 

Fly  Extka. 

Lenght 

Height 
of    Pole. 

Height 
of  Wall. 

Drill. 

Duck  or 

Stripe. 

Drill. 

Duck  or 

Stripe. 

6x6 

6     feet. 

3  feet. 

$6.50 

$8.75 

$2-75 

$3  75 

6x9 

7       " 

3     " 

9.50 

13  50 

4.OO 

<;.oo 

7x7 

7       " 

3     " 

8.50 

I300 

4.OO 

6.00 

7    x    94 

7       " 

3     " 

I2.00 

17-5° 

5-5° 

8.50 

9i  x    9i 

9*    " 

4     " 

14.OO 

2I-7S 

6.00 

9-25 

10    x  12 

94    " 

4     " 

17-75 

27.00 

7.50 

".75 

10    x  15 

94    " 

4     " 

20  00 

30.50 

8.00 

13.00 

12      X  15 

9^    " 

4     " 

22.00 

34.00 

10  00 

16  00 

14    x  15 

94     " 

4     " 

24.00 

37.00 

10.75 

'675 

The  above  prices  include  Poles,  Stakes  and  Bag,  complete. 


LAWN    OR    ROUND    TENTS. 


8  feet  diameter 

9  " 


White. 

$6.25 

7.00 

8. 50 

10  00 

11.00 


Stripe. 

$10.00 
11.00 
13.00 
H.  OO 
16.OO 


72 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


SHADE,    OR    HAMMOCK    TENT. 


Size,  10  x  10  ft. 

.    Drill,  $9.75, 

Stripe,  $13.00 

Size  15  x  15  ft 

"     IO  X  12    " 

"      10.00, 

"          14  00 

"     15x22" 

"    10  x  15  " 

.      "     ii-75. 

"          16.00 

"     15x25" 

"     12  X  15    " 

.      "     i3-25. 

18.75 

Drill,  $15.00,  Stripe,  $21.50 
"  17.00,  "  23.50 
"        18.50,         "         24.00 


THE    PORTABLE    BED    COT. 


The  frame  is  strong,  light,  and  very  springy,  which  allows  the  canvas  to  conform  to  the  body  as 
agreeably  as  a  hammock,  and  is  more  comfortable,  as  the  occupant  lies  straight.     Folded  or  opened 
instantly,  self-fastening  ;  just  the  thing  for   Hotels,  Cottages,  Sportsmen,  Camping  Out,  etc.     Good 
for  the  lawn,  piazza,  or  the  "coolest  place  in  the  house."     Splendid  for  Invalids  or  Spare  Beds. 
White  Duck $2.0° 

CAMP  BLANKETS. 

Rubber  Poncho  Blanket,  45  x  72  inches,  each $2.25 

Rubber  Camp  Blankets,  45  x  72     "          " 2.00 

"           "             "          52  x  78     "          "        flannel-lined 2.75 

"           "             "          63x78     "           " 3.25 

78x78     "          " 3.75 

Woollen  Camp  Blankets,  medium,  brown,  per  pair ...  3.00 

"             "            heavy,  silver  gray 5.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


n 


FOLDING    CAMP    TABLE. 


Ready  for  Use.  Folded. 

This  Table  is  so  simple  in  construction  that  a  child  can  set  it  up  or  pack  it  away  in  ten  seconds. 

It  is  neat,  compact,  strong  and  durable,  will  fold  to  the  thickness  of  a  board. 

Retail. 

No.  I.  Ash,  23x38x25 $3.00 

"    2.  Walnut,  "  .        .  .  3.50 

"    3.  Ash,  24x42x25 ...  3.25 

"    4.  Walnut,  "  ....  .  3.75 

"    5.  Ash,  24x32x29        .  3.50 

"    6.  Walnut,  "  ....  4.00 

"    7.  Ash,        24x47x29 3.75 

"    8.  Walnut,  "  4.25 


RUBBER     CAMP    BAGS. 


An  absolute  necessity  to  those  who  wish  to  be  comfortable  while  camping  out,  and  can  be  used 
as  a  pillow  or  couch,  and  keep  one's  whole  kit  perfectly  dry.  Will  hold  an  outfit,  including  blankets, 
etc. 


No.     1.  19^x32  inches 

"  2-0.  15x24        "  

Canvas  Cover,  with  strong  leather  handles,  to  protect  above 


$5.00 
4.00 
2.00 


74 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrate  d  Catalogue. 


LAWN    AND    CAMPING    CHAIRS. 


No.  i.  No.  2.  No.  3. 

No.  1.  The   strongest   and  lightest  folding  Camp  Chair  with  back  in  the  market.     Is  made  of 

white  ash,  with  heavy  cotton  sail  duck  seat,  and  neatly  finished.     Price 50 

No.  2.  This  chair  is  strongly  made  of  stained  wood,  with  cotton  duck  seat 3,5 

"    3.    Is  made  of  second  growth  ash,  with  heavy  canvas  seat;  folds  up  like  an  umbrella,  and 

can  be  carried  in  a  trunk 75 


HAMMOCKS. 


We  carry  in  stock  the  largest  and  best  assortment  of  Hammocks  in  New  England.  Each 
and  every  one  is  made  from  extra  strong  knotted  twine  of  the  best  quality,  and  warranted  to  give 
satisfaction. 


UNION    WEB    HAMMOCKS. 


B.  B.  . 

$1.00     By  mail,  . 

.      $1.15 

A.  B.     . 

2.00         " 

2.25 

A.  A.  . 

.       3.00         " 

3.40 

A.  A.  A.  .       .      $5.00    By  mail  .       .      $5.50 
Mexican  Grass        2.25         "  .  2.75 

Canvas,best  qual.,  4.00         "         .        .         4.50 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


75 


THE    "ASHANTEE"    POCKET   HAMMOCK. 
A  Luxurious  Bed,  Couch,  Seat,  and  Swing  in  one  Article. 

Weight  about  one  pound,  and  easily  carried  in  coat  pocket;  capable  of  bearing  a  heavy  strain 
without  breaking.  The  material  used  in  its  construction  is  a  fibre,  found  after  many  experiments,  to 
be  the  best  for  this  purpose.  Largely  ordered  by  the  English  Waf  Authorities  for  hospital  and  gen- 
eral army  and  navy  use  during  the  Ashantee  Expedition.  Exceedingly  useful  to  excursionists,  survey- 
ors, explorers,  soldiers,  and  parties  camping  out.  Hammocks,  hooks  and  ropes,  packed  in  a  neat 
rubber  case,  with  sling,  for  travelling. 
Price  complete,  by  mail $3-5° 

HAMMOCK    ATTACHMENTS. 

Anchor  Hammock  Ropes. 

Avoid  tying  and  untying  knots.     Rig  up  your  Hammock  with  this  new  device.     It  is  the  simplest 
and  best  contrivance  ever  offered  for  the  purpose. 

The  Hammock  can  be  adjusted  to  any  height  by  sliding  the  anchor  up  or  down  the  rope,  and  can 
be  put  up  and  taken  down  in  an  instant  without  tying  or  untying  a  knot. 

Price  per  pair .       .      .50 

Hammock  Hooks,  on  plates,  per  pair .  .40 

•■  "        to  screw,         " •  .40 

Hammock  Spreaders,  per  pair .50 

NEW  MINIATURE  POCKET  COOK  STOVE. 


Compact 

and 
Simple. 


Practical 
and 

Useful. 


^■Hl 


This  is  a  scientific  invention  of  great  merit,  the  result  of  careful  study  and  experiment.  It  is  a 
necessity  to  every  sportsman,  tourist,  and  in  fact  to  any  one  who  has  use  for  a  quick  and  intense 
heat.  Will  broil  a  steak,  boil  a  pot  of  coffee,  or  kettle  of  water,  in  from  5  to  8  minutes,  and  is  use- 
ful for  cooking  in  a  variety  of  ways.  It  burns  alcohol,  and  does  not  produce  a  smell  or  smoke  like 
the  ordinary  gas  or  oil  burners.  Is  perfectly  safe  and  cannot  be  exploded  under  any  circumstances ; 
requires  no  wick,  therefore  no  trimming,  and  the  consumption  of  fluid  is  scarcely  perceptible  owing  to 
the  peculiar  construction  of  the  burner.  The  case  inclosing  each  apparatus  may  be  used  in  place  of  a 
kettle,  and  when  enclosed  may  be  conveniently  carried  in  the  pocket.     Size  4^x2^  ;  weight  9  ozs. 

No.  1.  Tin  Case,  by  mail • $1.00 

"     2.  Copper  Case,  tin  lined,  finer  finish  throughout 2.00 


76 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


THORNE'S    PORTABLE    COOKING   STOVE. 

No.  2. 


The  cut  shows  the  Cooker  open  ;  it  is  7$  inches  in 
diameter  by  3^  ins.  in  depth,  and  comprises  fuel  reservoir, 
with  screw  cap  burners,  frying-pan,  2  cups,  2  spoons,  I 
tablespoon  (bent  for  lifting  the  pans),  2  knives,  2  forks,  2 
plates,  pepper  and  salt  cellers  ;  in  all,  26  pieces ;  weight,  2 
pounds.     Price    -         -         -        -       $2.00  ;  by  mail,  $2.40 

No.  1.  Smaller  size,  for  pocket,  with  outfit  for  one  per- 
son.    Price,     -----    $1.00;  by  mail,  #1.20 


CAMPING   AND    MINING   STOVE. 


No.  1.  Price  complete  - 


,15.00 


Outside  dimensions  when  packed  12x12x20 
inches. 

The  top  and  covers  are  cast  iron,  and  the 
body  is  made  of  Russia  iron,  weighing  only 
thirty  pounds,  very  durable,  and  will  cook  for 
eight  or  ten  persons. 

This  Stove  is  especially  adapted  for 
camping  purposes.  The  ware  consists  of 
eight-quart  kettle,  six-quart  tea-kettle,  two- 
quart  coffee  pot,  fry  pan,  round  tin  pan,  two 
square  pans,  dipper,  gridiron,  tent  collar  and 
eight  feet  of  pipe,  and  an  oven  that  will  roast 
fifteen  pounds  beef. 

The  ware  is  so  constructed  that  it  nests  and 
packs  in  the  oven  and  the  oven  and  pipe  pack 
inside  of  the  stove.  There  is  room  for  pack- 
ing half-dozen  plates,  knives,  forks,  spoons* 
and  drinking  cups,  in  addition  to  articles 
enumerated  above. 

Within  the  past  three  years  some  3,000  of  these  Nos.  1  and  o  Camp  Stoves  have  been  sold, 
and  without  a  single  exception,  have  given  perfect  satisfaction  to  those  using  them. 
No.  o.  Price  complete    -----.-.------    $11.50 

No.  o  will  cook  for  two  or  four  persons.  The  ware  consists  of  about  the  same  as  accompanies 
stove  No.  1,  with  the  exception  that  it  is  smaller  and  lighter.  The  portability  of  these  Stoves  com- 
mends them  to  any  one  desiring  such  an  apparatus  while  hunting  or  camping. 

Dimensions,  packed,  9^x12x134  inches.     Weight.  22  lbs. 


OIL   TANNED   MOCCASINS. 

Plain  Moccasin  ----         ..........     $3.00  per  pair. 

with  Flexible  Sole 4.00    "      " 

Watertight  Tongues  ------- extra    .50    \i      " 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


77 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S   NEW  CAMP   AXE    AND    SLING. 

Just  the  thing  for  tourists,  fishermen,  hunters,  trappers  and  camping 
parties.  The  Axes  are  of  the  celebrated  Underhill  make,  with  fine  ash 
handles,  which  are  the  best  cutting  axes  in  the  world,  and  are  warranted 
in  every  respect.  The  slings  are  of  heavy  harness  leather,  hand  stitched 
and  riveted  with  strap  to  go  over  shoulder.  The  axe  fits  the  sling,  which 
affords  a  thorough  protection,  and  is  held  in  place  by  a  strap  and  buckle 
so  that  it  cannot  work  out,  accidentally  cut  or  damage  anything,  or  be- 
come dull.  Can  be  carried  on  the  back  entirely  out  of  the  way  without 
encumbering  or  endangering  one's  self.     Weight  complete,  7.\  lbs. 

Axe  and  Sling  complete  --- -    $1.75 

Axe,  only    -----------  1.00 

Sling.   " -...-       1,00 


No.  8. 
No.  10. 
No.    11. 


OLRY'S    GLASS    POCKET    FLASKS. 

Leather  Covered,  with  Britannia  Metal  Cups. 

Particular  attention  is  called  to  the  manner  in  which  the  screws 
are  fastened  on  the  necks  of  these  flasks.  They  are  held  secure 
with  metal  only,  and  not  with  cement,  plaster,  or  compositions, 
which  are  the  causes  of  leakage,  removed  by  the  process. 

These  flasks  are  the  only  ones  in  the  markets  of  the  world  with 
the  above  important  improvement, 

D±h  JPint. 

Fine  Sheepskin,  each      .        .        .      $  .75 
Russia  Leather,  open  sides,  each  1.00 

Hogskin,  each 


OVAL    FORMS. 


No.    14.     Fusset  Colored  Leather,  each 

No.     16.     Hogskin,  each    . 

No,  160.     Hogskin,  Silver  Plated,  each 


iPint. 

JPint. 

JPint. 

Pint. 

Quart. 

*  -95 

$1.05 

#'•25 

$1-5° 

$2.50 

1.40 

'•75 

2.00 

2.50 

3-5° 

1. 15 
IS. 

MS 

I.SO 

2.00 

APint. 

#I.OO 

LIS 

»-75 

3.00 

JPint. 

#1.25 
I.40 
2.25 

7* 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WICKER    COVERED  FLASKS,  METAL    SCREW    TOPS. 

\  Pint.        |Pint.        SPint. 

Each 40c.         50c.        60c. 

N.B.  —  All  of  the  above  Flasks  are  warranted  not  to  injure  the  liquor  in  any  way. 


STONE    SIPHON    FILTERS. 


Telescope  Cup. 


For  Fishing,  Hunting,  Travellers,  Etc 

The  small  Army  or  Camp  Filter  may  be  carried  in  the  vest  pocket, 
and  water  taken  up  clean  by  it  from  even  some  of  the  most  unclean  pools, 
by  the  person    using  it.     Hunters,  soldiers,  woodsmen,   and   travellers 
should  never  be  without  them. 
No.  1,  each        •       .      by  mail,  25c.  |  No.  2,  each      .       .      by  mail,  50c. 


POCKET  DRINKING  CUPS. 

Each  Cup  is  packed  in  a  neat  box,  convenient  for  the  pocket. 

Each. 

Telescope  metal  cup .25 

"         hard  rubber  cup,  screw  cover     .        .        .        .  $1.00 

The  Vest-Pocket  leather  drinking  cup "25 

Soft  Rubber  Tumbler .25 

"         "       Canoe  Cup .25 

White  Metal  Collasping  Cup.    Packed  in  a  neat  white  metal 

screw-cover  box;  the  best  metallic  cup  in  the  market  .  .50 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


Tumbler. 


LAMPS. 

JACK   AND    DASH  LAMP. 

This  is  the  most  desirable  lamp  for  hunters  and  fishermen.  It  can 
be  used  for  night-hunting  deer,  coons,  and  other  animals  ;  spearing 
fish  and  eels,  and  lighting  camps  and  landings.  They  are  made  to 
burn  either  candles  or  kerosene,  but  not  in  the  same  lamp,  so  state 
which  you  want.  Candles  are  much  more  convenient  to  carry  in  the 
woods. 
Combination  Dash  and  Jack  Lamp  complete  with  dash,  pole, 

and  stable  attachments  -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -  $5.25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


79 


NO.  5.     THE    NEW   FRENCH    BULL'S   EYE    POCKET    LANTERN. 


No.  5. 


No.  1. 


No.  2. 


No.  5.  Same  as  used  by  the  Police  in  Paris  ;  it  can  be  used  also  as  a  Skating  Lantern.  It  is  the 
smallest  and  most  powerful  Lantern  made. 

Size,  2-inch  Bull's-Eye,  nickle  plated     -------._._  $1,715 

2f                                                                -------...  2.00 


No.   1.     FLAT    POLICE   OR   DARK    LANTERN. 

Made  of  Tin  and  Painted.     Can  be  carried  in  the  packet  and  used  for  Skating. 
Small  size,  2-inch  Bull's-Eye         -------___ 


.50 


No.   2.     ROUND    POLICE    OR    DARK    LANTERN. 

Made  of  Tin  and  Painted.     Can  be  used  for  Skating. 
Small  size,  2|-inch  Bull's-eye         ---.___._. 
Large     ''     3-inch  "  __.._..._ 


•75 
51.00 


No.   3.     NEW    BRASS    BULL'S    EYE    LANTERN. 

Made  of  highly  polished  Brass  with  fine  ground  and  polished  lens,  making  a  neat,  compact,  pow- 
erful and  durable  Lantern.     Burns  oil. 
Price      -------.----.__._        $3.00 


No.   4.     CAMP,    FISHING,   AND    BOATING   LANTERN. 

Made  of  Heavy  Tin,  nicely  Japanned,  with  powerful  silver  plated  reflector.     Diameter  of  face  of 
Lamp,  4^  inches.     Burns  oil  and  has  dash  snap  —  for  use  on  wagons. 


Price 


51.50 


Any  of  the  above  Lamps  sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price,  and  20c.  additional  for  postage. 
Note.  — Lamps  Nos.  1,  2,  3  and  4  are  largely  used  and  recommended  for  headlights  on  "  Double 
Runners." 


8o 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


PATENT  POWER   CORKSCREW. 


This  is  the  most  po\erful  Screw  invented. 
Very  strong  and  durable,  and  we  guarantee  that 
it  will  pull  a  larger  cork  with  less  effort  than  the 
most  expensive  English  lever  corkscrew  in  the 
market.  It  requires  but  one  motion,  that  is, 
simply  turning  to  the  right,  and  after  the  screw 
has  entered  the  cork  the  cap  strikes  and  acts  like 
a  jack  screw  in  drawing  the  cork,  so  that  no  ex- 
ertion is  required.  Elegantly  finished  and  nickle 
plated,  with  fine,  hard  wood  handle. 


Price,  by  mail  . 


•75 


CLOUGH'S  PATENT  CORKSCREW. 

Made  of  steel  wire,  finely  tempered,  hand- 
somely finished,  and  nickel  plated.  The  most 
compact  and  convenient  screw  in  the  market. 
Just  the  thing  for  pocket  use. 

Price,  by  mail 20 

CAMPING    SUNDRIES. 

Flannel  Shirts,  Blue  and  Gray each  $2.50,  $3.00 

Woollen  Stockings per  pair      50,     1. 00,    2.00 

Worsted  Knit  Jerseys .    each  2.50,    4.00 

Corduroy  Hats 2.00 

"        Caps ....  1.25 

Canvas  Helmet  Hats 1.50 

"      Shoes,  high  lace 1. 75,  3.00 

Corduroy  Pants 6.00 

Worsted  Web  Belts .50,     .75 

Leather  Belts .75 


LAWN    AND  PARLOR    RING    TOSS. 

This  ever-pleasing  game  is  here  brought  out  in  new  and  attractive  design. 
The  hoops  are  made  of  rattan,  graded  in  size,  and  wound  with  Fancy  Colored 
Webbing,  thus  presenting  a  beautiful  appearance  and  at  the  same  time  being  per- 
fectly harmless  to  the  wall  or  furniture,  when  played  in  the  house.  Equally 
Adapted  to  the  Lawn.  The  stake  is  jointed,  and,  with  the  hoops,  can  be  placed 
in  the  box  when  not  in  use.  This  is  a  great  advantage  in  shipping. 
Price, £1.00;  by  mail,  $1.25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


81 


SPORTSMEN'S    OUTFITS. 


All  carefully  made  of  the  best  material,  and  we  are  confident  that  they  are  the  best  goods  ever 
offered  to  the  sporting  public. 


Shooting  Hat.     No.  22. 


SHOOTING    COATS. 

No.  1.  Made  of  Good  Quality  Water-proof  Duck,  Dead  Grass  color,  4  outside  Pockets  and  2 

large  inside  Game  Pockets £1.75 

No.  2.  Made  of  Heavy  Water-proof  Duck,  with  collar,  Dead  Grass  color,  4  outside  Pockets  and 

large  inside  Game  Pocket  extending  entirely  around  the  coat 2.25 

No.  3.  Made  of  Heavy  Water-proof  Canvas,  with  Collar,  Dead  Grass  color,  5  outside  Pockets, 

1  inside  Breast  Pocket,  full  Game  Pockets  with  openings  in  front  seams        .        .       .        3.50 

No.  4    Made  of  Extra  Quality  Heavy  Water  proof  Canvas,  with  Collar,  Dead  Grass  color,  5 
outside  Pockets,  1  inside  Breast  Pocket,  full  Game  Pockets  with  openings  in  front 

seams.     The  best  Coat  in  the  market 5.00 

Note. —  Coats  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  35c.  extra. 

SHOOTING    HATS. 

No.  21.  Water-proof  Canvas,  Double  Visor ^1.25 

No.  22.           "                  "        Broad  Brim,  Square  Crown 1.50 

No.  23.           "                   "             "         "       Round       "           1.50 

No.  24.  Corduroy,  Square  Crown,  Stitched  Brim 2.00 

Hats  by  mail  on  receipt  of  10c.  extra. 
6 


82 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


LEGGINGS. 

No.  31.  Water-proof  Canvas,  trimmed  with  Leather,  to  button,  $1.50 
No.  32.  Hezvy  Water-proof  Canvas,  trimmed  with  Leather,  to 

buckle 2.00 

No.  23-  English  Leggin,  extra  heavy  Water-proof  Canvas, 
trimmed  with  Leather,  to  buckle.     The  best  Canvas 

Leggin  in  the  world 2.75 

No.  34.  Corduroy  Leggin,  Fine  Quality,  to  button        .        .  3.00 

No.  35.  Best  Heavy  Grain  Leather,  Water-proof,  Pate.it 
Springs  by  which  they  may  be  fastened  in  an  inst  mt, 
extra  long,  coming  over  the  knee  like  a  high  top  riding 

boot 5  00 

Leggins  sent  by  mail  as  follows  :     No.  31,  15c;  32,  33  and  34, 
20c;  35,35c  extra. 


GAME    BAGS. 


No.  4. 


All  imported  direct  from  the  best  manufacturers. 

1.  Boy's,  Leather  Body,  with  Net      _.        .      $1.00 

2.  Full  size,  Russet  Leather  Body,  with  Net 

and  Leather  Flap 1.75 

3.  Good  Quality,  Round  Corners,  Fringed 
Net,  Russet  Leather  Body  and  Flap 

4.  Fine  Quality,  Heavy  Fringed  Net,  Russet 
Leather  Body  and  Flap,  with  Pockets    . 

5.  Round  Corners,  Fringed  Net,  Russet 
Leather  Body,  with  Pockets  and  Seal-skin 
Flap       .  

6.  Best  Quality,  Round  Corners,  Double 
extra  heavy  Net,  Fringed,  Russet  Leather 
Bodv,  with  six  pockets,  and  handsome 
Seal-skin  Flap 

7.  Very  Best  Quality,  Bellows  Pattern, 
Round  Corners,  Double  extra  heavy  Net, 
Fringed,  Russet  Leather  Body,  with  six 
Pockets,  and  handsome  Sealskin  Flap  . 

Game  Bags  sent  by  mail  as  follows:    Nos.  1, 
5c;  4,  5,  6  and  7,  25c.  extra. 


2.50 


3-75 


5.00 


6.00 
and 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


33 


CARTRIDGE     BAGS,     BELTS     AND     HAVERSACKS. 

No.  10.  Extra    heavy   Water-proof    Canvas     Bags. 

Holds  50  Rounds 75 


No. 
No. 
No. 


Same  as  No.  10. 


12. 
13- 


No.  14. 
No.  15. 


Holds  75  Rounds 

"     100       "  .        . 

Best  Heavy  Grain  Leather  Bags,  two 
Pockets  nicely  made.  Holds  50  Rounds  . 
Same  as  No.  13.     Holds  75  Rounds 

U  (l  it  ((  tt  |QQ  it 

No.  16.  Best  Rubber  Water-proof  Haversacks, 
very  convenient  and  durable   .... 

No.  20.  Cartridge    Belts,  Leather    Loop,    with 

shoulder     to     prevent     cartridges     falling 

through,  Lined  and  Stitched,  with  strap  to 

go  over  shoulder,  any  gauge    .... 

Above  goods  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  12c.  extra. 


$1.00 
1.25 


1-75 

2.00 
2.50 

1  5° 


1  50 


PISTOL    HOLSTERS,    BELTS,    AND     CARTRIDGE    BOXES. 


Bridle  Leather  Holster  and  Belt.  Rubber  Pocket  Holster. 

No.  50  and  57.  No.  70,  71  and  72. 

No.  50.  Best  Bridle  Leather  Holsters,  Lined  and  Hand-sewed,  Army  and  Navy  sizes  .  1.00 

"    51.  Same  as  No.  50,  for  Pocketsizes .75 

"    55.  Belts,  for  above  Holsters,  Eest  Bridle  Leather,  Lined  and  Stitched 50 

"    60.  Cartridge  Boxes,  Best  Bridle  Leather,  to  go  on  Belt,  holds  one  Box  of  Pistol 

Cartridges,  any  size .75 

"    70.  Rubber  Pistol  Holster,  Perspiration    proof,    perfect  protection  for  a  Revolver 

against  Rust  or  Corrosion.  22  cal .75 

"    71.  Same  as  No.  70.     32  cal 1. 00 

"    72-       "  "  38    " .  1.25 

Holsters  and  Belts  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


84 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


HUNTING    KNIVES, 

With  Hand  Made,  Russet  Leather  Sheath. 
Every  one  warranted,  and  bears  Joseph  Rodgers  &  Sons  stamped  on  the  shank. 


Length  of  Blade 
Price 


Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  ioc.  extra. 


ENGLISH    COMBINATION  KNIVES. 


6  7  8  in. 

Si. 75  $2.00  $2.50  each. 


Just  the  thing  for  Hunters, 

Travellers,  Horsemen,  Fishermen 

and  Sportsmen  generally. 

Every  one  warranted. 

No.  1243. 


No.  1242.    Ivory  Handle.  Prices  by  mail 

"      1243.    Buckhorn  Handle.       "  " 

"     1 190.  "  •«  «  " 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


85 


HAND-SEWED  ENGLISH  HUNTING  SHOE. 

Made  of  English  Grain  Leather,  all  in  one  piece;  no  seams  to 
hurt  the  feet ;  broad  sole  and  heel  with  wide  shank,  English  water- 
tight tongue,  making  an  easy  fitting  snoe  and  largely  used  by 
Hunters,  Miners,  Lumbermen,  Army  Officers,  Fishermen,  etc.  A 
warmer,  more  durable  or  better  adapted  shoe  for  the  above  purposes 
cannot  be  obtained.     In  ordering  send  size  of  the  shoe  worn. 

Price,  per  pair $7-°° 


MONEY    BELTS. 


No,   I.  Chamois  Skin,  good  quality,  price  by  mail 75 

"     2.  Buckskin,  fine  quality,  "  " $1.00 

"     3.  Russet  Leather,  fine  quality,    "  " •  1.50 


POCKET   COMPASSES. 


No.  1. 


No.  2. 


We  have  the  finest  line  of  Compasses  in  the  United  States.  All  are  imported  for  us  directly 
from  the  first  manufacturers  in  France,  who  produce  the  best  compasses  in  the  world.  All  have 
Heavy  Raised  Crystals,  and  every  compass  warranted  accurate. 


86 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


No.  i.   With  Ring,  fine  Graduation 
"    2.       "     Cover,  " 


I  3-16 
..25 


Il-i6in. 


No.  3.  With  Ring,  Metal- 
lic Dial,  fine  Quality 
and  Graduations  . 

No.  4.  Same  as  No.  3, 
with  stop  which  lifts  the 
needle  off  the  bearing 
when  not  in  use,  so 
there  is  no  wear  . 

No.  6.  With  Covers, 
Metallic  Dial.  Stop  and 
Silvered  Cap  on 
Needle.  Fine  Quality 
and  Graduations  . 

No.  8.  WithRing,Cover, 
Metallic  Dial,  Stop 
and  Silvered  Cap  on 
Needle.  Extra  heavy 
Crystal.  Fine  Quality 
and  Graduations  . 


7-16 


.40 


50 


1  11-16 

.40 
•50 


•55 


1  14-16  inch. 
.50     each. 


.60 


.70 


90 


•75 


$1.00       $1.10 


Diameter.   Each. 
No.    9.  With  Cover,  Metallic  Dial,  Stop  and  Jeweled  Bearing.     Very  fine  Quality 

and  Graduations 1  n-i6in.  1.50 

No.  12.  Hunter  Case,  Hinged  Cover  with  Ring,  Nickel  Plated,  Metallic  Dial,  Stop, 

Jeweled  Bearing  and  extra  fine  Graduations  in  Degrees in  i6in.  2.00 

No.  13.  Hunter  Case,  Hinged  Cover,  with   Ring,  Nickel  Plated,  Metallic  Dial,  Auto- 
matic Stop,  Jeweled  Bearing.     Very  fine,  and  an  exact  imitation  of  a  watch 

when  closed     • 

No.  14.  "  Special."  This  is  the  best  Compass  in  the  world,  and  is  the  favorite  with 
all  hunters,  soldiers  and  Western  men.  Extra  Heavy  Case  and  Cover, 
Metallic  Dial,  Jeweled  Bearing,  Automatic  Stop,  Heavy  Bar  Needle,  and 
extra  fine  Graduation  in  Degrees.  Especially  adapted  for  rough  work,  and 
so  constructed  that  the  crystal  may  be  removed  to  get  at  the  works  at  the 
same  time  without  danger  of  their  coming  out  accidentally.  Warranted 
Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


1  !4-i6in.  3.50 


CHAIN    COMPASSES. 


No.  21,  Fancy  Rope  De- 
sign, good  quality 

No.  22.  Bevel  edge  Crys- 
tals on  both  sides,  fine 
quality 

No.  25.  Pilot  Wheel  De- 
sign, roll  gold  plate, 
bevel  edge  Crystals  on 
both  sides 


Each- 


•35 


•65 


$1.00 


N.  B. — Sent  by  mail  on   re- 
ceipt of  price. 


No.  21. 


No.  22 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


87 


YACHTS'    BINNACLE   COMPASSES. 

Our  Yacht  Compasses  are  of  the  best  manufacture,  and 
every  one  warranted  accurate  and  reliable.  All  made  with 
Floating  Dials,  finely  jewelled  and  divided,  in  extra  heavy 
cases  with  covers.  They  are  hung  upon  Gimbals,  so  no 
matter  how  much  a  boat  lays  over  they  will  always  find  a 
level  and  still  indicate  the  direction.  Can  be  used  either 
with  or  without  a  binnacle,  and  are  an  indispensable  article 
aboard  a  yacht. 

Sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


Size 
Price 


it      2\      3111. 

$4.00  #4.75  $6.00 


No.  42. 


BRIDGEPORT     GUN    IMPLEMENTS. 

No.  1 147.  Barclay's  Patent  Loader,  with  Inside 
Springs.     The  only  Loader  by  vvhic     the  wads  may 
be  set  home  perfec   y  uniform,  made  of  Boxwood  and 
Brass.    10  or  12  gauge.  (See  cut)        .        .       .    $1  00 
No.   1 147. 

No.  1 149.  Loader  with  Steel  Cap  Extracting  Needle  made  of  Cocobolo  Wood  and  Brass.     10  or 


gauge 


.50 


No.  ig.  Gill's  Friction  Bottom  Measure 
for  Powder  and  Shot,  the  only  measure  that 
insures  absolute  accuracy  in  loading,  Nickel- 
plated,  Cocobolo  Rammer  Handle.  (See 
cut) 50 


No.  20.  Powder  and  Shot  Measure,  Nickle-plated 


No.  19. 


•30 


No.  1 


No.  1 100.  Patent  Straight  Feed  Closer,  the 
only  Closer  which  will  close  a  shell  perfectly 
without  straining  or  bending,  finished  in  Red 
Japan  and  Brass  with  Cocobolo  Handles.  Shells 
may  be  closed  twice  as  fast  with  this  as  any 
other.     10  or  12  guage        ....      $2.25 


No.  1.  Closer,  Bronzed,  with  Light  Trimmings.   10  or  12  gauge      (See  cut) 


1.25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


No.  1 170.  Shell  Extractor  and  Recapper  combined,  for  Recappin^  and 
Extracting  shells,  Nickle-plated,  very  handy  to  have  in  the  poeket  to  extract 

t  if.  1  hells.     10  or  12  gauge.     (See  cut} -o 

No.  1 170. 

No.  1182.  Shell  Recapper,  suitable  for  all  kinds  of  primers,  finished  in  Red  Japan.     10  or  12 
gauge 75 

No.  1180.  Shell  Recapper,   Bronzed  finish.     10   or    12 
ms&^t!'~:    ^^Se«=^-^ ^    gauge.  (See  cut) 55 


1 1  So. 


No.  121.  Cleaning  Rod,  3  joints  with 
Swab,  Scratch  Brush,  Wiper  and  Wormer, 
made  of  the  finest  Cocobolo  Wood  with 
Orion  Metal  Trimmings  and  Implements. 
10  or  12  gauge.     (See  cut)  .       .       .      $2.00 


No.  101.  Cleaning  Rod,  same  as  above  except 
Maderia  wood  rod  and  cheaper  finish.  10  or  12 
gauge.     (See  cut) $1.00 


No.  101  and  121. 


No.  443.  Pocket  Field  Cleaner ;  sportsmen  are 
frequently  troubled  while  in  the  field  by  their  guns 
getting  foul,  and  have  no  means  of  removing  the 
dirt ;  but  by  running  one  of  the  cleaners  through  the 
barrel  a  few  times  the  trouble  may  be  obviated.  It 
consists  of  a  Bristle  Brush  and  Double  Slotted  Wipe 
attached  by  a  Cord  to  a  Hollow  Plummet  for  Lubri- 
cator, with  Screw  Top  and  Needle  for  applying,  all 
1j  a  neat  Leather  Case  the  size  of  a  small  pocket 
book      10  or  12  gauge $1.50 


No  750. 


No.  443. 


No.  750.  Gun  Screw  Driver,  made  es- 
pecially to  remove  screws  in  fire  arms  without 
defacing  them.  Width  of  Blade  3-8,  1-4, 
5-16  inch.     (See  cut) 50 


No.  252.  Wire  Scratch  Brush,  for  removing  Lead,  Rust  and  Dirt  from  a 
Gun  barrel.     10  or  12  gauge.     (See  cut) 65 

N.B. —  All  Breeching  Loading  Implements  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  10  extra. 


No.  252. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


89 


DOG  COLLARS,    HARNESSES,    ETC. 

We  have  one  of  the  finest  lines  of  Dog  Collars,  Cat  Collars,  Harnesses,  Leads,  Whips,  Blank- 
ets, Couples,  Brushes,  Locks,  Bells,  etc.,  in  the  country,  and  there  is  no  taste,  however  fastidious, 
which  cannot  be  pleased  by  some  of  our  numerous  styles,  of  which  a  few  are  given  below. 


HAND   STITCHED,   ENGLISH    BRIDLE    LEATHER   COLLARS. 
Warranted  to  Hold  Any  Dog. 

No.  426.     Length,    9  to  15  inches  ;  width,    finch $i-$° 


"     427- 
"     428. 


13  "  17       " 
15  »  19       •« 


4 
"     1       " 


i-75 
2.00 


SINGLE   BRIDLE   LEATHER. 

No.  1.     1    inch  wide,  to  buckle    .        .        .      .40  J  No.  11.     1    inch  wide,  to  lock 


•45 


12.     I^ 


a  <( 


•5° 
.60 


DOUBLE  BRIDLE    LEATHER,  STITCHED. 


No.  21.     1    inch  wide,  to  buckle 
"    22.     ii         "  " 


.60  I  No.  31.     1    inch  wide,  to  lock 
.70  I     "    32.     i£ 


.6S 

•75 


IMPROVED    FOLDED   BRIDLE    LEATHER  COLLARS. 


No.  40.       I  inch  wide,  to  lock    . 
"     41.     1  "  " 

"     42.     ii        " 


1.7S 

.85 

1. 00 


No.  51.     1    inch  wide,  Nickel  Studs  .        .    $1.20 
"     52.     ii         "  "  •  i-35 

"     53.     il         •'  .       .      1.75 


NICKEL   CHAIN    COLLARS. 

We  have  a  large  assortment  of  these,  both  with  and  without  lining,  ranging  in  price  from  a  small 
50-cent  collar  to  a  large  mastiff  collar  at  #3.00. 


9o 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


PITG  DOG   COLLARS. 

No.  102.     Russet  Leather ;  Flannel  Lined  ;  Gilt  or  Nickle  Studs  and  Bells        ....    $1.00 

"    104.     Enamelled  Leather  (see  cut)  ;  Gilt  or  Nickel                 1.50 

"    105.             "             "           in  two  colors,  Gilt  or  Nickel  Studs  and  Bells        ....  1.75 

"    106.     Alligator  Skin  ;  Nickel  Studs  and  Bells 2.00 

"    icS.     English   Russet  Leather;  Hand  Stitched  ;  Felt  Lined  ;  Gilt  or    Nickel  Studs  a:  d 

Bells 2.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


9i 


No. 

I. 

a 

2. 

it 

3. 

4- 

< 

5- 

<< 

6. 

(< 

7- 

" 

8. 

DOG  HARNESSES. 

Glazed  Morocco,  Gilt  Studs  and  Bells   .        • $1.50 

Russet  Leather,  Stitched,  Gilt  or  Nickel  Studs  and  Bells 2.00 

Russet  Leather,  Flannel  Lined,  Fancy  Gilt  or  Nickel  Studs  and  Bells  .  .  .  .  2.75 
English  Russet  Leather;  Hand    Stitched  and   very  Strong;    Fancy  Gilt  or  Nickel 

Studs  and  Bells       ....        • •  3.75 

Black  Bridle  Leather  ;  Scolloped ;  Flannel  Lined  ;  Studded  with  Gilt  Dogs'  Heads 

and  Bells,  very  handsome        , 3.75 

Rusia  Leather ;  Stitched  ;  Handsomely  Studded  with   Gilt   Dogs'  Heads  and  Six 

Bells 6.00 

Silk  Velvet ;  Nickel  Studs  and  Bells 6.50 

Padded  Harness  [see  harness  on  dog] ;  English  Russet  Leather ;  Hand  Stitched  ; 

Felt  Lined ;  Bells,  Studs,  etc.,  of  the  very  best 6.50 

"  Pullman  "  Harness,  Collar  and  Lead  to  Match  ;  made  of  Braided  Fancy  Leather, 

with  Studs  and  Bells 10.00 


LOCKS   AND  BELLS. 


No.  1.     Small.  No.  2.     Small.  Small  Open. 

t 

No.  1.     Scandinavian  or  Charm  Locks,  Gilt  or  Nickel         .       .       .  Small,      .25  Large,  .40 

"    2.     Spring  Padlocks,  Gilt  or  Nickel "          .20  "        .25 

Open  Bells,  Gilt  or  Nickel,  Chased Small,  15     Medium,  20  "        .25 

Round    "        "             " "20         "25  "       .30 


No.   1.     Small  Braided  Leather  .       .        .        .40 
"     2.     Heavy  Twisted         "  .  .50 

"     3.     Heavy  Bridle  Leather  in  one  piece, 

with  Loop  and  Snap,  for  Field  Dogs  91.25 


DOG   LEADS. 

No.   K. 


Small  Chain 45 

Large      "              ....            .50 
Safety      "  50 


In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  we  keep  in  stock  the  follozving  Goods,  cata- 
logue of  which  will  be  mailed  free  to  any  address  on  application  :  Targets,  Tar- 
get Pasters,  Cartridges,  Shells,  Wads,  Primers,  Flobert  Rifles,  Revolvers,  Ait 
Guns,  Air  Pistols,  Darts,  Slugs,  Dog  Calls,  Whistles,  Whips,  Flea  Powder, 
Areca  Nut,  Etc.,  Etc. 


92 


Wricht  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    BOXING    GLOVES. 


All  our  gloves  are  carefully  made  of  selected  leather,  stuffed  with  the  best  curled  hair  and  have 
solid  palms,  the  fingers  being  made  by  stitching  double  fourchettes  inside  the  glove.  They  are  the 
best  gloves  in  the  market,  and  are  all  carefully  inspected  before  leaving  our  factory. 

No.  B.B.  Professional  Contest  Glove,  made  of 
the  best  selected  imported  kid,  and  curled  hair, 
double    hand  sewed  with  wax    linen,  ventilated 


palms,  and  warranted  to  be  the  best  glove  in  use. 
Used  and  recommended  by  all  the  Professionals 
in  the  country. 
Price  per  set $7.00 

No.  A.     Boys',  are  made  of  soft  tan  leather 
palms  and  chamois  coverings,  stuffed  with  curled 
hair. 
Price  per  set $2.50 

No.  B.  Men's,  made  of  the  same  as  above,  but 
better  quality  leather  and  hair. 
Price  per  set $3. 00 

No.  C.  Made  of  extra  tan  leather,  palms  and 
wrists  bound  with  blue  fancy  leather,  strings  to 
tighten  around  the  wrists. 
Price  per  set $3. 50 

No.  D.  Same  as  No.  C,  with  padded  heel. 
Price  per  set  .  •  $4.00 

No.  E.  Made  with  white  kid  palms  and  fancy 
blue  leather  cuffs,  with  elastic  to  tighten  around 
the  wrists,  extra  fine  soft  covering,  and  ventilated 
palms. 
Price  per  set $4.50 

No.  F.  Same  as  No.  E,  with  padded  heel. 
Price  per  set $5.00 

No.  G.  Made  with   soft   tan   dog  skin   palms, 
with  fancy  red  leather  cuffs,  and  elastic  to  tighten 
around  the  wrists,  extra  fine  soft  covering,  and 
ventilated  palms. 
Price  per  set $5-50 

No.  H.  Same  as  No.  G,  with  padded  heel. 
Price  per  set $6.00 


No.  I.  Professional  Sounding  Gloves,  made 
with  Indian  tanned  reindeer  palms,  and  white  kid 
coverings,  and  red,  white  and  blue  fancy  leather 
cuffs,  stuffed  with  the  best  curled  hair,  and 
double  sewn  in  with  an  extra  band  of  leather, 
ventilated  palms. 
Price  per  set $6.50 

No.  J.  Same  as  No.  I,  with  padded  heel. 
Price  per  set $7.00 

No.  K.  Made  of  imported  white  French  kid, 
palms  and  coverings  of  the  very  best  material, 
finished  with  long  red,  white  and  blue  fancy 
leather  duffs,  nicely  stitched  with  silk,  etc., 
ventilated  palms. 
Price  per  set  .  $7-50 

No.  L.  Same  as  No.  K,  with  padded  heel. 
Price  per  set $8.00 

No.  M.  Professional  or  Contest  Glove,  made 
to  lace  up  at  the  back  under  the  hair,  in  order  to 
tighten  it  to  any  size  hand,  white  kid  covering. 
The  tops  of  the  fingers  are  outside,  so  the  hand 
may  be  closed  as  easily  as  in  a  kid  glove. 
Price  per  set $6.00 

Wright    &   Ditson's  Manual  on  Indian 
Clubs  and  Dumb  Bells. 
Price  by  mail 25 

Boxing  Made  Easy. 
Price  by  mail  13 

Art  of  Sparring.     By  Ned  Donnelly. 
Price  by  mail 25 

Science  of  Self-Defence.     By  E.  Price. 
Price  by  mail 75 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


93 


IMPROVED    STRIKING    BAGS. 

For  Physical  Culture. 
These  bags  are  intended  to  strengthen  the  arms,  wrists,  shoulders 
back,  loins,  and  particularly  the  muscles  of  the  abdomen,  will  teach  the 
striker  how  to  deal  a  blow,  and  recover  quickly  and  easily  after  the  blow 
is  delivered.  They  are  of  inestimable  value  to  every  one,  especially 
those  whose  business  require  confinement. 

No.  i.  Small  Canvas $1.75  each. 

"    2.  Medium     " 2.00     " 

"    3.  Large         ■«  2.25     " 

"    5.  Gymnasium  Style,  Heavy  Leather        ....        8.00     " 


WRIGHT     &     DITSON'S     PROFESSIONAL    OR    LIVELY 
STRIKING    BAG. 

This  bag  is  made  of  strong  grain  leather,  hand  stitched,  with  a  strong 
leather  loop  for  suspension,  enclosing  a  heavy  Para  rubber  bladder  which 
is  filled  with  compressed  air.  Used  by  John  L.  Sullivan,  and  all  the 
leading  professionals  of  this  country. 

No.  1.  Small $6.00  each. 

"    2.  Large 7.00    " 


BLACK    WALNUT    OR    ASH    WANDS    FOR    EXERCISING    WITH. 


4  feet  long,  per  dozen $3.00  |  5  feet  long  per  dozen 

4 J  feet  long,  per  dozen     .        ...  3.50 


$4.50 


SWINGING     RINGS      FOR     CHILDREN    AND     ADULTS 
OF    MAPLE    AND  BLACK  WALNUT. 

Glued  together  and  polished.     Cannot  break. 

Per  Pair. 

3  inches  Outside  diameter .40 

4  .50 

5  "  "  "           60 

6  "  "  "              80 

7  "  "  "          $1.00 

8  "  "  "               1.20 


94 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


EXERCISING    RINGS    FOR    SCHOOLS. 

Made  of  polished  maple,  in  one  piece. 

5  inches  Outside  Diameter      .       .      .40  per  pair.  |  6  inches  Outside  Diameter      .        .      .50  per  pair. 

GALVANIZED    WROUGHT    IRON     SWINGING    RINGS. 

6  inches  in  diameter      .        ,        .      $i.oo  per  pair  I  10  inches  in  diameter  .        .        .      $2.00  per  pair. 
8      "  "  ...  1.50     "     "     I  12      "  "  .  2.50         " 

INDIAN    CLUBS. 

Our  first  quality  Indian  Clubs  are  made  of 
clear  hard  Maple,  after  the  Kehoe  and  other 
improved  models,  lathe  polished,  and  first  class 
in  every  respect.  Our  second  quality  are  made 
the  same  shape  as  the  first  quality,  but  of  timber 
which  is  not  suitable  for  the  first  quality  clubs, 
and  has  some  checks  and  knots.  They  have  a 
varnish  finish,  and  compare  favorably  with  what 
other  dealers  sell  as  a  first  quality  Club. 

1st  quality.      2d  quality. 
Per  Pair.        Per  Pair. 

I  pound .85  .65 


3 
4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 

10 


BOOKS  OF  INSTRUCTION. 
Kehoe's  Book,  complete  ....      $1.00 
Wright  &  Ditson's  Manual  on  Clubs 

and  Dumb  Bells .25     I 

Sent  by  mail  upon  receipt  of  Price. 


IRON    DUMB    BELLS. 

Made  of   the  best  quality  gray  iron   after   the    most 
approved  patterns.      Finely  finished  in  Black  Japan. 

Sizes  as  follows:  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  12,  15,  20, 
25,  30,  40,  50,  60,  75  and  100  pounds  each. 
Price 05  per  lb- 

"     with  Leather  Covered  Handles,  per  pair 

extra 75    " 


$1.00 

•75 

1.50 

$1.00 

2.00 

1.25 

2.50 

1.50 

3.OO 

i-75 

3-5° 

2.00 

4.00 

2.25 

4.50 

2.50 

5.00 

2.75 

Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


95 


WOODEN    DUMB    BELLS. 

All  made  of  the  best  clear,  selected  hard  Maple,  nicely  finished. 

i   lb 40  per  pair. 

1  " 40     "     '• 

2  " 60     "     " 

3  " 75    "    " 

4  " $1.00    "    " 

GOODYEAR'S     POCKET    GYMNASIUM. 
7 


The  movements  employed  in  using  the  Pockc  Gymnasium  are  many.  They  are  adapted  to  the 
old  and  young  of  both  sexes,  and  of  all  degrees  of  muscular  development.  The  feeble  invalid  may 
use  them  in  a  small  way,  and  gain  new  strength  day  by  day.  The  little  child  may  be  taught  some 
graceful  movements,  and  will  rapidly  acquire  strength  of  limb,  erectness  of  posture,  and  the  rosy  tint 
of  health. 

No.  5.  For  Ladies  and  Children $1.50  each. 

"    6.     "         "         "     Gents,  with  handles         ....  .  1.75     " 

"    7.     "    Gents  of  moderate  strength,  with  handles 2.00     " 

"    8.     "         "      "  extra  "  *         "  2.50     " 

Nos.  6,  7,  and  8  are  fitted  with  a  screw  eye  "and  hook  to  attach  to  the  wail  or  floor.  A  pair  of 
No.  7  ($4.00),  or  No.  8  ($5.00),  make  a  complete  gymnasium. 

Note. —  These  goods  sent  to  any  address,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price. 


GYMNASIUM    MATTRESSES. 

Made  of  Extra  Heavy  Duck,  with 
Handles,  to  Okder. 

No.  1.  5  feet  wide,  filled  with  2  inch  felt 
Price  per  running  foot      .    $2.50 

No.  2.  Size,  6x5  feet,  filled  with  excel- 
sior   ....    $9.50  each. 

No.  3.     Size,  6x5  feet,  unfilled,  8.50     " 

N.  B.  —  We   can  also  make  any  sizes 
tt^  wished,    on  which   we   will    give  special 
prices  on  application. 


96 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    NEW    AND    IMPROVED    HORIZONTAL    BARS. 

For    Gymnasium,    Stage    or    Parlor. 

There  has  long  been  felt  in 
families  (especially  where  there 
are  young  children)  the  want  of 
a  simple  but  effective  means  of 
physical  culture,  now  universal- 
ly admitted  to  be  so  essential  to 
health.  It  is  confidently  be- 
lieved that  the  above  apparatus 
will  efficiently  supply  this  want, 
as  it  will  be  found  in  the  highest 
degree  simple,  strong,  portable, 
light,  neat,  well  finished  and 
cheap.  It  can  be  fixed  easily 
in  a  few  minutes  in  any  room 
and  as  quickly  removed  ;  and  is 
adapted  for  both  sexes,  and  all 
ages.  The  fastenings  are  most  ingeniously  arranged  to  adjust  the  bar  to  any  height.  Height  of 
upright,  7  feet  feet  8  inches  ;  it  can  be  adjusted  as  low  as  four  feet,  and  regulated  to  use  from  a  four 
to  a  six  foot  bar.  The  guy  ropes,  or  side  regulators,  are  made  of  iron  rods.  Weight  only  6S  lbs. 
without  Steel  Core  ;  with  Steel  Core,  So  lbs. 

Price  of  everything  complete,  plain  Hickory  Bar,  packed  ready  to  ship $215.00 

Trice,  complete,  etc.,  with  Steel  Core  Bar 35-°0 

HORIZONTAL   BARS. 

Made  of  the  best  of  gourd  Hickory,  finely  finished. 

#Jt6in\ 
5ft 

6/e 


Length       .... 
Plain  Hickory  Bars 
Hickory  Bars,  Steel  Core 


5 

Si 

6 

6£  feet. 

i-7S 

$2.00 

$2.2  s 

$2.50  each 

9.50 

10.00 

10.50    " 

WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    NEW    PORTABLE    PARALLEL    BARS. 


These  Bars  are  the  only  ones  made  that  can  be  taken 
apart  with  ease  and  safety,  and  are  now  being  used 
throughout  the  country,  in  gymnasiums,  societies, 
schools,  and  for  private  use  ;  can  be  packed  and  shipped 
with  convenience,  and  put  up  ready  for  use  upon  any 
stage  or  parlor  floor  in  a  few  minutes  ;  made  of  sea- 
soned hard  wood,  oil  finished,  and  the  workmanship  is 
first  class. 
Price,  8  feet  long $18.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


97 


WRIGHT   &    DITSON'S   HARVARD    OR    CHEST    WEIGHT    APPARATUS. 

The  above  is  the  principal  and  most  popular  ap- 
paratus known  to  the  athletic  world,  and  has  been 
unanimously  adopted  by  all  of  our  leading  gymasi- 
ums  and  many  private  parties.  It  has  been  so  im- 
proved of  late  years  that  a  person  can  get  all  neces- 
sary exercise,  both  the  strong  and  weak,  as  the 
weights  are  so  regulated  that  2,  4,  8,  12.  16,  or  20 
lbs.  can  be  used.  The  weights  can  be  quickly  and 
easily  changed  by  using  a  small  slide  that  goes  on 
front  of  the  box.  There  is  a  rubber  bed  located  on 
the  floor  which  keeps  the  boxes  from  making  a  noise 
when  they  strike. 

The  rods  are   of  steel,  and  the  woodwork  white 
ash.     The  apparatus  takes  up  but  little  room,  stand- 
ing out   from  the  wall  6|  inches.     Height,  5!  feet ; 
width  2  feet  and  5  inches. 
Price 


WRIGHT   &    DITSON'S   SPRING    PULLEY    APPARATUS 


Is  one  of  the  most  simple,  durable,"  and 
easily  worked  apparatus  yet  introduced.  The 
springs  are  made  from  the  best  tempered 
steel,  and  will  last  for  years  with  the  proper 
usage.  It  can  be  used  in  any  ordinary  sized 
room,  and  adjusted  to  the  wall  or  casing  of  a 
door  in  a  very  short  time.  Can  be  so  regu- 
lated that  a  man  or  boy  can  use  it  equally 
well,  and  is  much  superior  to  rubber,  not  be- 
ing affected  by  damp  or  hot  weather.  It  is  so 
arranged  that  the  springs  are  reversible,  be- 
ing worked  from  the  top  as  well  as  bottom. 
Just  the  thing  for  home  exercise.  It  takes  up 
but  a  small  space,  as  shown  in  the  cut,  and, 
when  not  in  use,  packs  away  in  a  smal 
wooden  box. 

Full  directions  sent  with  each  one. 

Price       .       .       .  $4.00  each. 


98 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


WRIGHT   &    DITSON'S   EUREKA   ROWING   MACHINE. 


STARTING    THE   STROKE. 

There  is  no  better  Rowing  apparatus  than  the  above,  from  which  general  exercise  can  be 
obtained.  With  the  combination  of  the  Health  Lift,  which  accompanies  each  machine,  it  is  a  small 
gymnasium  in  itself  ;  and  no  home  where  hath  and  strength  are  valued  should  be  without  one. 
The  power  of  resistance  and  foot  rest  are  adjustable,  so  that  they  can  be  made  to  suit  the  size  and 
strength  of  a  man,  woman,  or  child.  We  1  ave  sold  them  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canadas 
for  the  past  four  years,  and  they  have  met  with  general  approval  and  given  perfect  satisfaction 
Taking  into  consideration  the  variety  of  exercises  that  can  be  obtained  from  this  apparatus,  it  makes 
it  the  cheapest  and  best  article  of  its  kind  in  the  market. 

The  machine  is  carefully  and  strongly  made  from  well-seasoned  ash,  the  springs  are  of  the  best 
quality  of  curled  steel  wire.  When  ready  for  use  it  is  4!  feet  long  by  5  feet  wide,  and  when  taken 
apart  and  packed  is  3^  feet  long  by  i£  feet  wide. 

To  change  the  pressure,  shift  the  rings  on  the  handle,  up  or  down,  which  regulates"  the  springs 
to  make  the  weight  to  pull  5,  10,  20,  30,  etc.,  pounds. 
Price,  complete,  only  .  •    $1^.00 


WRIGHT  &   DITSON'S    NEW  ATHLETIC   SLIPPER. 

White  Canvas  Tops,  with  RuBBEirSoLES. 

This  Slipper  has  met  with  universal  favor 
since  it  has  been  put  upon  the  market,  and  is 
declared  by  all  to  be  the  best  Gymnasium  and 
Athletic  Shoe  now  in  use,  and  also  very  desirable 
for  Boating,  Running,  Jumping,  Lacrosse, 
Bicycling,  Tennis,  etc. 
Price ...      $1.25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


99 


THE    OARSMAN'S    ROWING    MACHINE. 


Contains  all  the  valuable  features  of 
the  modern  style  of  rowing.  To  oars- 
men wishing  to  keep  in  practice  during 
the  winter  season,  and  to  novices  de- 
sirous of  learning  the  art  of  Rowing 
and  Feathering  correctly,  it  is  a  prime 
necessity.  It  gives  every  motion  as 
perfectly  as  if  in  a  shell  on  the  water. 
It  is  portable,  strong,  neat  and  com- 
pact ;  has  the  sliding  seat ;  can  be 
regulated  for  heavy  or  light,  long  or 
short  stroke  ;  will  not  get  out  of  order, 
and  in  fact  is  a  perfect  piece  of  mech- 
anism. It  is  made  of  Ash,  Walnut, 
Steel,  and  Iron,  in  a  very  hardsome 
manner.  It  is  light  and  takes  up  but 
little  room,  and,  after  using,  it   can  be 

closed  and  secured   by  a  lock,  as  shown  in  the  above  cut.     In  use,  6x4.      When  Closed,^  feet  high, 

i£  feet  wide.     The  price  is  reasonable  for  the  quality  of  machine. 

Price $2500 


TRAPEZE    BARS. 

Made  of  the  best  selected  young  Hickory,  finely  finished. 


Length  of  Ropes. 

5  feet 

6  " 

7  " 

8  " 
10  '• 
12  " 


Price  Complete, 
With  Hooks. 

$2.00  per  set. 

2.25 
2.50 

-■75 
3-75 
4-75 


We  make  any  length  Ropes  to  order,  extra,  15c.  per  foot. 


WRIGHT    &    DITSON'S    FINE     RUSSET    LEATHER    ATHLETIC     SLIPPERS. 

The  demand  for  a  nice  Gymnasium  and  Athletic  Slipper 
has  induced  us  to  place  upon  the  market  the  above,  which 
is  the  finest,  nicest  and  handsomest  of  its  kind.  The 
uppers  are  of  fine  Russet  Leather,  and  the  soles  of  the 
best  India  Rubber,  finely  cemented,  and  all  nicely  finished. 


Price 


£2.75 


100 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


GYMNASIUM    ROPES,    RINGS,    ETC. 

5  feet  Ropes,  6  in.  Galvanized  Rings $2.00  per  pair. 

6  "  "  "  "  ....  2.25         " 

7  "  "  " 2.50         " 

2-75         " 
300         " 

3-25         " 

3-5°        " 

3-75 

Rings  covered  with  Leather,  extra 1.00         " 

Knotted  Ropes,  any  length .20  per  foot. 

Rope  Ladders,  "  40        " 

All  the  above  come  complete  with  Wrought  Iron  Ceiling  Hooks. 
Ceiling  Hooks,  Galvanized  Wrought  Iron 40  per  pair. 


GYMNASIUM  SLIPPERS. 

White  Canvas,  Leather  Sole 


TUMBLING   SOCKS. 

All  Canvas,  largely  used  for  Tumbling,  Gymnasium  and 

Rope  Performing 50 


HIGH  LACE  THE  ATRICAL  AND  GYMNASIUM  SHOES. 

White  Canvas,  Leathar  Soles,  bound  with  fancy  colored  Leather  .      $2.00 
"  "        Tops  and  Soles 1.00 


RUNNING    SHOES. 

Best  English,  made  of  Black  Calfskin, 
with  Steel  Spikes  inserted  between  the  soles. 
The  best  and  lightest  shoe  in  the  world. 

Price $6.00 

American  Running  Shoe,  after  the  style  of  English,  Black  Calfskin  Leather,  with  English 

Spikes.     A  desirable  Shoe  for  amateurs 3.00 

American  Running  Shoes,  same  as  above  in  every  respect,  without  Spikes  .       .       .       .         2.50 
Note.  —  All  above  Shoes  and  Slippers  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  10c.  extra. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


ioi 


FENCING     FOILS. 


ALL    IMPORTED,    WITH     SOLINGEN     BLADES. 

Per  Pair. 

No.  514.  Fine  Steel  Blades,  Wound  Handles $1  50 

"     515.      "         "         "         Curved,  Wound  Handles 2.00 

"  517.  "  "  "  Brass  Mounted  Handles,  Wound  with  Fancy  Leather  and  Gimp  2.50 
"     518.  Best  Solingen   Steel  Blades,    Highly  Finished,   Brass   Mounted,   Curved   Handles, 

Wound  with  Fancy  Leather  and  Gimp  .                    3  50 

"     432.  Best  Solingen  Steel  Blades,  Engraved,  Highly  Finished,  Curved  Handles,  Bound 

with  Velvet,  and  Wound  with  Gilt  Cord 6.00 

"     433.  Best  Solingen  Steel  Blades,  same  as  No.  432,  but  without  improved  handles  and 

engraved  blades 5.00 

FOIL    BLADES. 

No.  516.  Fine  Steel,  for  Foils  No.  514  and  515 $1.25 

"     519.  Best  Solingen  Steel,  for  Foils  No.  517  and  51S 2.00 


COMBAT    SWORDS    OR    BROAD     SWORDS. 


Made  of  the  Best  English  Steel 


.00  per  pair. 


SINGLE     STICKS. 


102 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


HAUTE     RAPIERS. 


Made  of  the  Best  English  Steel 

FENCING     MASKS     AND     HELMETS. 


.00  per  pair. 


No.  429.  No.  430.  No.  431.  No.  510. 

Per  pair. 

No.  429.  Wire  Masks,  Plain,  French  Pattern #2.50 

'     430.       "         "         with  Ear  Protectors 3.00 

'     431.       "         "  "      "      and  Forehead  Protectors 4-°o 

'     431X.  Same  as  No.  431.     Padded 5>0° 

'     510.  Cane  Helmets,  English  Pattern  and  Make,  for  Stick  practice,  etc 600 

'     509.  Heavy  Wire  Helmets,  English  Pattern  and  Make,  for  Broad  Sword,  Sabre,  Rapier  or 

Foil  exercise 10.00 


FENCING     GLOVES,     ETC. 


No.  436. 


No.  511. 


No.  435.  Fencing  Gloves,  Fine  Buckskin,  Full  Padded  with  Curled  Hair  . 
"     436.  Fencing  Gauntlets,  Fine  Buckskin,  Full  Padded,  Trimmed  with  Fancy  Colored 

Leather 3-5°    " 

"     511.  Plastroons,  Fine  Buckskin,  Full  Padded,  to  protect  the  chest  when  Fencing      2.50  each. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


103 


KNIT    GOODS. 


FOR  BOATING,  GYMNASTICS,  POLO,  FOOT  BALL,  ETC.,  ETC. 

We  are  now  manufacturing  a"ll  of  our  knit  goods,  which  are  of  the  best  quality,  and  are  prepared 
to  fill  orders  promptly.  We  carry  in  stock  the  largest  assortment  of  the  above,  in  ordinary  colors 
and  stripes,  of  any  house  in  the  country.  Special  styles,  Colors  or  Stripes  made  to  order  in  from  7 
to  10  days. 


/« 


No.  1.  No.  2. 

WORSTED    KNIT    GOODS. 
ROWING    OR    SLEEVELESS    SHIRTS. 


No.  3. 


Plain  Colors      . 

Stripe  on  Neck.     (See  cut3) 


Each 

$3-oo 

3-25 


SARATOGA    OR    QUARTER    SLEEVE    SHIRTS. 


Plain  Colors ,  e0 

Stripe  on  Neck  and  Sleeves 3.75 

Stripe  on  Neck  and  Sleeves  ;  Letter  on  Breast.    (See  cut  1) 4.00 

EQUESTRIAN    SHIRTS. 

Plain  Colors,  without  Collar.     (See  cut  2) 3.71; 

LEOTARD. 


Plain  Colors 


3-75 


104  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 

JERSEYS. 
Plain  Colors  (with  Collar) $4.00 

HEAVY    JERSEYS,    OR  SWEATERS. 

Plain  Colors 4.00 

Striped  Around,  any  two  Colors 4.50 

PLAIN     SWEATERS. 

Wool,  Striped 2.00 

Wool,  Navy  Blue 2.50 


No.  9. 


No.  6. 


No.  5.  No.  4. 

FULL    TIGHTS. 


No.  8 


Per  Pair 

Plain  Colors.     (See  cut  4) $350 

KNEE     TIGHTS. 

Plain  Colors.     (See  cut  5) 2.75 

Striped  top  and  bottom 3.00 

TRUNKS. 

Plain  Colors.     (See  Cut  6) 1.75 

"         "         Fashioned 2.00 


SKULL    CAPS. 


Plain  Colors,  with  or  without  Stripe.     (Cut  7) 

"         "         Long  Cap,  with  or  without  Stripe  (Cuts  8  and  9) 


Each. 
1. 00 
i-25 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


105 


STOCKINGS. 

Per  Pair. 
Plain  Colors.     (See  Base  Ball  Goods) 50     $1.00    $2.00 


SILK    KNIT    GOODS. 


Full  Tights,  Plain  Colors 

"         "         "       (Cotton  tops)    .... 

Knee  Tights,  " 

Trunks,  " 

Saratoga,  or  Quarter  Sleeve  Shirts,  Plain  Colors 
Equestrian  Shirt  or  Jersey,  Plain  Colors    .       . 


per  pair, 

$12. CO 

<<         u 

IO.OO 

a         (( 

IO.OO 

<<         11 

6.00 

ft        << 

12.00 

a        c< 

15  00 

COTTON    KNIT    GOODS. 

Equestrian  Shirts,  White  or  Flesh  Color $2.00 

Full  Tights,  White  or  Flesh  Color 2  00 

Saratoga,  or  "  Gym"  Shirt,  £  Sleeve,  White  or  Flesh  Color 75 

Knee  Tights,  White  or  Flesh  Color .75 

Saratoga,  or  "Gym"  Shirt,  \  Sleeve,  Extra  Fine    French  Cotton,  White  only  .        .        .        .  1.50 

Rowing,        "                  "     Sleeveless,        "                      "                        "                      .       .  1.25 
Tj^=*  Cotton  Trunks,  see  Bathing  Goods.  =JP2 
Note.  —  We  do  not  keep  Dyed  cotton  gx>ds,  as  the  colors  are  not  fast. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    SELF-MEASUREMENT. 

For  Rowing  and  Saratoga  Shirts  —  Around  the  Chest. 

Jerseys,  Sweaters  and  Equestrian  Shirts  —  Chest,  and  length  of  Arm  from  Centre  of 

Back  to  Wrist. 
Leotards  —  Chest,  Waist,  Hips,  Thighs,  and  length  from  Neck  to  Crotch. 
Full  Tights  —  Waist,  Hips,  Thighs,  length  of  Fool  and  inside  of  Leg  from  Crotch  to  sole  o^ 

Foot. 
Knee  Tights   and   Trunks  —  Waist,  Hips,  length  from  Crotch  to  Knee,   and  around  Leg 

below  Knee. 


JOCKEY         STRAPS       AND        SUSPEN- 
SORIES. 

Very     necessary     articles     for     Athletics    and 
Gymnasts. 

Jockey  Straps,  Plain    .  each  .50,  Chamois  LineJ  .75 

Suspensories,  Cotton   .     "     .50,  Silk,  .75 

Sent  per  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 


SPANGLES. 

Silver,  2  oz.  packages,  by  mail per  package  .35 

Gold,      """....  «<  ,fi 


io6 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


BOATING    GOODS. 


Blue  (  loth  Yacht  Cap.  |H||iL 

fiW™||J|  White  Duck  Yacht  Cap. 

Yacht  Shirt. 

Each. 

Fine  Blue  Cloth  Yacht  Caps     .  • $2.00 

Regulation  Blue  Cloth  Yacht  Caps 2.00 

White  Duck  Yacht  Caps SO 

"         "      with  extra  cover .75 

"         "  •"         "      for  Boys 25 

Extra  Quality  Indigo  Blue  Flannel  Yacht  Shirts 3.50 

"  "  "         "  "         Plain  Buttoned  Shirts 3-°° 

"  "  "         "  "         Pants         ...        • 3-°° 

Canvas  Booting  Slippers,  Rubber  Sole • 1.25 

OARS,  PADDLES   AND    ROWLOCKS. 

Per  Pair. 

Spoon  Oars,  varnished,  leathered  and  coppered 7  ft.  $4.00.    8  ft.  $4.50 

Ash  or  Spruce  Oars,  varnished,  leathered  and  coppered  .         .        .        •     7,  7i  and  8  ft.,  per  ft.  .20 

Plain  Spruce  Oars any  length,     "  .12 

Plain  Ash             "               ««.«««  -IO 

Rowlocks,  Galvanized  Malleable  Iron per  pair,  if  in.  .40.     2  in.  .50 

Canoe  Paddles,  Spruce,  single 1.75 

"             "              "        double 3.00 

"      jointed,  making  two  single  or  one  double  Paddle      .        .        .  3.50 


WRIGHT  &    DITSON'S  ADJUSTABLE    STILT. 

Something  new,  pleases  a  boy  at  first  sight.     It  is  a  new  invention  t 
meets   a   demand  long  looked  for  by  the  boys,  and  does  away  with   the 
pieces  of  wood  being  nailed  to  the  sticks.     It  is  made  of  the  best  cast- 
iron,  easily  raised  and  lowered  on  the  stick,  as  shown  in  the  cut. 

Stirrups  and  Sticks,  sent  by  express per  pair,  .50 

"        alone,  sent  by  mail "       "      .30 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


107 


BUNTING   AND   SILK   FLAGS. 


Jte 


CLUB    FLAGS. 

No.  1.  —  Made  of  any  color  Silk,  with  Initial  Letter  of  Club 
painted  in  gold,  and  trimmed  with   any  color   Silk   Fringe  to 
match  ;  size,  18x27  inches,  same  as  cut  (without  staffs). 
Per  pair $6.00 

No.  2.  —  Foul-Flags,   made   of    red    and   white,   blue    and 
white,  or  solid  red,  blue,  or  white  bunting ;  size,  18x27  inches, 
without  staffs. 
Per  pair $1.50 

Flags  made  of  red,  white  or  blue  Bunting,  with   any  color 
Initial,  size,  18x26  inches. 
Per  pair $2.50 

Club  Flags  of  any  style  or  color  made  to  order.  Write 
for  particulars,  with  drawing  of  flag  wanted,  and  estimates 
will  be  furnished. 

AMERICAN    FLAGS. 
Made  of  First  Quality  Bunting. 


Size. 

Price. 

Size. 

Price. 

3x1^  feet 

•         •      #2.SO 

18x9      feet    . 

.    $2I.OO 

4x2      " 

3-^5 

18x10^    " 

23.25 

5X2|    " 

•        3-75 

21x10^  " 

.      28.CO 

7x34    " 

5.50 

21x12  .  " 

30.  OO 

0x5       " 

•        9-75 

24x15     "       . 

42.OO 

2x6       " 

11.00 

27x15     " 

50.00 

4x7       "        • 

.       .     14.25 

30x20     " 

.      60.OO 

When  ordering  goods,  please  order  by  numbers   and   description,  and   oblige   us  by  rot 
cutting  the  list. 


io8 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


RUBBER   TARGET-GUN. 

The  latest  and  best.     An  entirely  new  principle.     For  target  practice  and  hunting.     Shoots  ar- 
rows, bullets  or  shot.     Shoots  almost  as  straight  as  a  rifle.     Entire  length,  39  inches. 


Its  power  and  accuracy  are  surprising.  Makes  no  reports  and  does  not  alarm  the  game.  Has 
no  recoil.  Will  carry  600  feet.  Thousands  of  them  are  in  use,  and  never  fail  to  give  satisfaction. 
With  every  gun  are  included  five  metallic  pointed  arrows,  two  targets,  and  globe  sight. 

This  Gun  will  throw  an  arrow  or  bullet  with  nearly  double  the  force  of  any  other  similar  gun. 
The  arrows  are  made  of  hickory,  with  sol  d  steel  points. 

Price  of  Gun $1.00.     Postage,  if  sent  by  mail,  extra,    .25 

Hardwood  Arrows,  with  Turned  Metal  Points per  doz.,   .25 

TEN-PIN    BALLS   AND    PINS    FOR    BOWL- 
ING ALLEYS. 

The  Balls  of  our  manufacture  are  of  the  best  selected  lignumvitae  : 
Pins  of  polished  maple.  A  complete  set  for  one  alley  consists  of  12 
Balls,  assorted  sizes,  and  one  set  of  Ten-Pins.  Make  your  selection 
from  the  following  list  of  sizes  :  — 

Ten-Pins  of  Polished  Maple 

Diameter  of  Balls,  4  inch,  each     . 

«  "        6     " 

"  "        64  " 

TALLYING    REGISTER.  —  NEVER  MAKES   AN    ERROR. 


.  $1.25 

Diameter,  7    inch, 

each 

1.50 

71    " 

(i 

.    1.75 

8      " 

a 

2  OO 

84    " 

« 

.         2.25 

9      « 

" 

2-75 

94    " 

(< 

Per  Set,  $5.00 


553.00 

3-75 
4.00 
4.50 

5.00 
5-SO 


This  cut  represents  our  No.  o  Register  or  Tallying 
Machine  as  held  in  the  hand  to  be  used.  The  machine  is 
about  two  inches  in  diameter,  registers  as  high  as  1,000, 
and  when  it  has  reached  that  number,  it  commences  over 
again.  It  can  be  set  back  to  zero,  or  to  any  number 
desired,  in  a  moment,  by  a  single  operation. 

This  machine  is  intended  for  general  tallying  purposes, 
and   is   especially  adapted   for   counting   persons  entering 
places  of  amusement,  etc.,  as  it  is  small,  and  can  be  easily 
concealed  While  being  operated. 
Nickel  Plated $2.50 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


109 


Fine 


Bathing 

Suits, 


For  Ladies, 
Gentlemen, 
And  Boys. 


The  following  Goods  are  carefully  and  strongly  made  from    the 
best  of  materials  :  — 

COMBINATION   SUITS. 

Cotton  Shirt  and  Knee  Pants,  Narrow  Stripes       .    per  Suit,  $1.00 
"  "  Worsted,  plain  colors,     "  6.25 

ONE    PIECE    SUITS. 

(See  Cut  No.  2.) 

Fancy  Cotton,  Narrow  Stripes $1.50 

Worsted,  Plain  and  Striped 4.00 

Navy  Blue  Flannel,  Trimmed 4.00 


No.  2.  Worsted  Suit.  One  Piece. 


LADIES'   FLANNEL  SUITS. 

Made  of  Navy  Blue  Flannel,  Nicely  Trimmed.     Suit  consists  of  one  piece,  like  cut  No.  2,  and 
a  short  Skirt. 

Price , 86.00 


HO 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


FANCY    COTTON    TRUNKS. 

Boys per  pair,  .25,  .50  and  .75 

Mens "     "  .50     ''    .75 

NEPTUNE   NON-ABSORBENT  BATHING  SUITS. 

These  Suits  are  the  most  desirable  in  the  market,  for  the  following 
reasons  :  Tney  do  not  cling  to  the  body  and  show  off  the  form  ;  the  wind 
cannot  penetrate  to  make  one  shiver  and  shake  after  coming  out  of  the 
water  ;  but  at  the  same  time,  when  immersed  a  person  becomes  as  wet  as 
if  dressed  in  woollen,  and  the  sensation  is  much  more  agreeable  ;  they 
require  no  drying,  only  simply  shake  and  put  in  the  pocket  which  ac- 
companies each  one,  thus  saving  much  delay. 

No.  A.  Good  Quality $2. 50  each. 

"    B.  Fine         "  3.00     " 

"    C.  Best  "  •  3.50     " 


No.  1. 


INDOOR    GAMES    AND    AMUSEMENTS. 


Heller  s    Cabinets 


-of- 


TRICKS, 


Or    Slio-lit 


-of- 


^  Hand  Performance. 


PUT    UP    EXPRESSLY    FOR    WRIGHT    &    DITSON. 

Each  Trick  is  perfectly  made  and  selected  with  care,  so  that  an  amateur  may  be  able  to  perform 
each  and  any  trick  after  reading  directions  accompanying  each  Cabinet,  with  very  little  practice,  and 
cause  a  great  deal  of  amusement. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


hi 


Cabinet  No.  i. 


Cabinet  No. 


CABINET    NO.    i     CONTAINS    7    TRICKS    AS    FOLLOWS: 

Magic  Spot  Cards,  My  Grandmother's  Necklace,  Magic  Nail,  Magic  [Cone,  Wonderful  Bran- 
Boxes,  Bon-Bon  Box,  Vanishing  Ball. 
Price $1.00;  by  mail,  $1.25 

CABINET    NO.    2    CONTAINS    9    TRICKS    AS    FOLLOWS: 

The  Obedient  Ball/or  Oriental    Globe  Trick,  The  Magic  Cigarettes,  The  Magic  Babies,  The 
Wonderful  Card  Box,  The  Magic  Die,  Secret  Gift  Puzzle,  The  Marble  and  Vase,  The   Shower  of 
Bon-Bons,  The  Magic  Till  (Tin  Box.) 
Price $2.00;  by  mail,  $2. 25 

CABINET    NO.    3    CONTAINS    13    FINE    TRICKS    AS    FOLLOWS: 

Glass  and  Coin,  Phantom  Finger,  Magic  Two  Cent  Box,  The  Obedient  Ball,  Magic  Till,  Magic 
Die,  Magic  Babies,  Cups  and  Balls,  Vanishing  Pack  of  Cards,  Magic  Coffee  Pot,  Puzzle  Ring  Box, 
Shower  of  Bon  Bons,  Mallet  and  Rough  Ball. 
Price #5.00 

CABINET    NO.   4    CONTAINS    15    EXTRA    FINE    AND    EXPENSIVE    TRICKS 

AS    FOLLOWS: 

Marble  and  Vase,  Shower  of  Bon  Bons,  Obedient  Ball,  Magic  Cards  (a  number  of  different  tricks 
can  be  played  with  these  cards),  Changing  Covers,  Bottle  and  Glass  ;  Wonderful  Card  Tripod, 
Mystical  Coffee  Canister,  Bon  Bon  Box,  Inexhaustible  Bottle,  Magic  Till,  Magic  Tube,  Bran  Trick, 
Glass  and  Coin,  Magic  Die,  Cups  and  Balls. 

Price $10.00 

Wright  &  Ditson  Magic  Coin  Box .50 


HELLER'S    LATEST    SENSATION,    "  FOURALL." 

The  most  astounding  Trick  ever  invented.     A  box  containing  four  blocks,  numbered  1,2,  3,  and 
4,  is  handed  to  some  one  in  the  audience,  who  can  disarrange  or  take  out  one  or  more  of  the  blocks, 
then  wrap  and  seal  the  box  in  paper,  and  hand  it  to  the  performer,  who  can  tell  exactly  what  change 
has  been  made  with  the  contents  of  the  box. 
Price,  by  mail,  with  instructions $1.00 


112 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


THE    POLYOPTICON. 


The  Polyopticon  will  project  upon  the  wall  greatly  enlarged  views  of  newspaper,  magazine,  and 
book  illustrations,  portraits,  comic  cuts,  and  silhouttes,  card  photographs,  chromo  cards  in  all  their 
colors,  flowers,  butterflies,  and  other  objects,  the  works  of  a  watch  in  motion,  home-made  drawings 
and  sketches. 

The  Polyopticon  is  made  to  fit  any  Argand  (round  wick)  lamp  or  gas  burner,  students'  lamps, 
etc.     It  is  made  of  good  material  and  is  strong  and  durable. 

No.  i.  Price,  complete $2.50;  by  mail,  $2.75 

No.  2.  Made  of  nicely  finished  wood,  larger  and  more  powerful  than  No.  1,  and 

is  provided  with  a  Portable  Lamp  and  Orient  Burner.     Price      .        .        5.CO ;      "  5.50 


POLYOPTICON    PICTURE    BOOK. 


Many  of  the  comics  in  this  book  used  to  be  given  away  with  each  Polyopticon,  but  having  been  at 
considerable  expense  in  making  the  collection,  and  remembering  also  the  cheapness  of  our  Polyopticons 
in  comparison  with  magic  lanterns  and  other  wonder  cameras,  we  have  concluded  hereafter  not  to 
pledge  ourselves  to  give  any  pictures  with  the  Polyopticons,  and  to  charge  only  fifty  cents  for  our 
whole  book  of  pictures,  which  includes:  Around  the  world  in  So  sights.  30  Bible  pictures  —  old 
and  new  Testament.  18  ancient  and  modern  statues.  18  portraits  of  prominent  persons.  10  illus- 
trations from  Robinson  Crusoe.  8  illustrations  of  a  temperance  lesson.  Over  100  comic  German 
figures  in  procession  and  silhouttes. 

These    pictures  are  so  arranged  that  they  can  be  put  apart  and  used  in  slips  or  separately  as 
preferred. 
Price ea<=h  .50 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


it3 


MAGIC     LANTERNS. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Special  line  of  Magic  Lanterns  are  greatly  superior  to  those  heretofore  sold 
for  Home  use. 

Each  Lantern  has  3  finely  ground  and  polished  lenses  (mounted  similar  to  those  used  in 
Exhibition  Lanterns)  by  which  the  full  benefit  of  the  light  is  obtained.  They  are  very  handsome 
in  appearance,  have  Japanned  metal  bodies,  prettily  ornamented,  spun  brass  chimneys,  metal  tubes 
for  object  lenses,  brass  front,  slip  adjustment  for  focussing,  and  are  mounted  on  a  wooden  base.  Each 
Lantern  is  in  a  strong  wood  box,  with  one  dozen  finely  colored  slides,  containing  many  subjects. 

The  slides  are  far  superior  in  execution  to  those  usually  supplied. 


NO.    10    "SPECIAL." 


This  is  the  best  cheap  Home  Magic  Lantern  ever  made.  It  is  7^  inches  long,  3I  inches  wide, 
9£  inches  high,  Japanned  metal  body,  Japanned  chimney  with  brass  tip,  i\  inch  condensing  Lens, 
object  Lenses  are  mounted  in  metal,  brass  front  and  slip  adjustment  for  focussing,  coal  oil  lamp  and 
polished  reflector,  and  one  dozen  fine  colored  long  slides,  packed  in  a  neat  wood  box,  with  grooved 
partition  for  slides. 
Complete,  only j^i.75 

No.  11.  Japanned  Metal  Body  on  wood  base,  brass  chimney,  metal  tube  for  object  Lenses, 
with  slip  adjustment  for  focussing  and  brass  front,  coal  oil  lamp  and  polished  reflector, 
packed  in  neat  wood  box,  with  one  dozen  fine  colored  long  slides.  Lantern,  9  inches 
long,  4  inches  wide  and  gb  inches  high.     Condensing  Lense,  ij  inch  diameter     .       .      3.50 

8 


H4  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 

No.  12.  Same  as  No.  n,  but  Lantern  is  10  inches  long,  4!  inches  wide,  10  inches  high.  Con- 
densing Lenses,  if  inch  diameter     ....  4.00 

No.  13.  Same  as  No.   11,  but  Lantern  is   11  inches  long,  4f  inches  wide,  n£  inches  high. 

Condensing  Lense,  i|  inch  in  diameter 5.00 

No.  14.  Same  as  No.  11,  but  n£  inches  long,  5  inches  wide,  n  inches  high.     Condensing 

Lense,  2  inches  in  diameter 5.50 

No.  15.  Same  as  No.  II,  but  12  inches  long,  5$  inches  wide,  12^  inches  high.     Condensing 

Lense,  2f  inches  in  diameter 6.50 

No.  16.   Same  as  No.  11,  but  13^  inches  long,  6  inches  wide,  134  inches  high.     Condensing 

Lense,  2^  inches  in  diameter 7.00 

No.  17.  Same  as  No.  11,  but  14  inches  long,  6£  inches  wide,  144  inches  high.     Condensing 

Lense,  3  inches  in  diameter  8.00 

EXTRA     SLIDES. 

One  dozen  finely  colored  slides  in  a  wooden  box  for  Lantern  No.  9,  50c. ;  No.  10,  90c. ;  No.  II. 
$1.00;  No.  12,  $1.25;  No.  13,  $1.50;  No.   14,  $2.00;  No.  15,  $2.50;  No.  16,  $3.25  ;  No.  17,  $4.00. 

CHILDREN'S     MAGIC     LANTERN. 

No.  9.  Strongly  made  to  burn  either  candle  or  lard  oil,  complete  in  box  with  12  colored  slides,  $1.00 

THE  "GEM"    MAGIC    LANTERN    AND    OUTFIT. 


The  GEM  is  a  new  style  of  Magic  Lantern,  designed  especially  fur  the  amusement  and  instruc- 
tion of  the  young. 

!■  —  The  BODY  is  convenient  in  form  —  is  substantially  made  of  strong  tin,  neatly  japanned, 
and  will  last  for  years. 

2.  —  The  LENSES  are  of  excellent  quality,  accurately  ground  and  polished,  and  define  the 
Views  clearly  upon  the  Screen. 

3- — The  LIGHT  is  obtained  by  the  use  of  an  improved  candle  in  a  patented  carrier  which 
keeps  the  flame  constantly  in  the  central  line  of  the  Lenses,  and  yields  a  good  illumination.  As  there 
is  no  oil  or  fluid  of  any  kind,  cleanliness  is  the  result,  and  a  child  can  safely  operate  The  Gem  Magic 
Lantern  without  difficulty. 

4.  —The  MAGNIFYING  POWER  is  abundant,  and  the  Views  can  be  distinctly  enlarged  to 
three  feet  in  diameter,  or  larger. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


"5 


The  Gem  Magic  Lantern  and  Outfit  consists  of  24  slides,  2J  inches  wide,  9  inches  long,  having 
four  or  five  figures  on  each  slide  ;  Screen,  6  feet  square,  with  loops  by  which  to  suspend  it ;  12  Gem 
Candles;  all  packed  in  neat  Walnut  case  with  lock  and  key. 

The  SLIDES  are  neatly  finished  and  highly  colored;  illustrating  Fairy  Tales,  Caricatures, 
Comic  Subjects,  Popular  Nursery  Tales,  Bible  History,  etc.  This  Lantern  is  of  cylindrical  shape, 
6  inches  diameter,  9  inches  high,  on  firm  base,  with  hinged  door.  The  Condensing  Lens  2^  inches 
diameter.     Printed  directions  fun  ished  with  each. 

The  Gem  Magic  Lantern  and  outfit  complete      .  $12.00 

Extra  Candles  for  Gem  Magic  Lantern per  doz.         .75 


GEM    MAGIC    LANTERN    SLIDES. 

Embracing  a  good  selection  of  Views  for  the  entertainment  of  Children.     Designed  to  accom- 
pany the  Gem  Magic  Lantern,  but  can  be  used  in  any  other  Magic  Lantern  of  same  capacity. 
In  Sets  of  12  Slides,  2^  inches  wide  by  9  inches  long,  colored,  with  4  or  5  figures  on  each  slide. 
Price $2. 50  per  set. 

Set  No.    i. —   3  Slides,  Cinderella;  3  Slides,  Blue  Beard  ;  3  Slides,  Hop  o' My  Thumb;  3  Slides, 
Little  Red  Riding  Hood. 

8  Slides,  Hop  o'  My  Thumb  ;  4  Slides,  Comic  Subjects. 

8  Slides,  Cinderella  ;  4  Slides,  Humorous  Figures. 

6  Slides,  Blue  Beard ;  6  Slides,  Caricatures. 

6  Slides,  Fair  One  with  Golden  Locks  ;  6  Slides,  Around  the  World  in  80  Days. 

6  Slides,  Robinson  Crusoe  ;  6  Slides,  Sleeping  Beauty. 

6  Slides,  Hunting  Scenes  ;  6  Slides,  Laughable  Designs. 

6  Slides,  Landscapes  ;  6  Slides,  Amusing  Subjects. 
12  Slides,  Little  Tommy  Touch  All. 
12  Slides,  .^isop's  Fables 
12  Slides,  Gulliver's  Travels. 
12  Slides,  Testament  History. 

with  Movable  Effect,  on   glass,  2^x4  inches,  adapted  for  the  Gem  Magic 

35  cents  each. 


Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No. 
Set  No.  10.  — 
Set  No.  ii.  — 
Set  No.  12.  — 
Comic  Slides, 
Lantern  . 


2. — 

3  — 

4-  — 

5-  — 
6. — 

7-  — 
8.— 

9  — 


NEGRO    MINSTREL   AND  THEATRICAL    GOODS. 


— 1\ 

NEGRO    WIGS. 

Plain,  see  Cut  No.  8  .... $1.25 

White,  Old  Man 1.50 

Gray,         "                  1,50 

Bald,          " 1.50 

Top  Knot,  or  End  Men    ...               ....               1.50 

Close  Crop,  Silk .  2.00 

Wench 5.00 

Comic 2.00 

Fright 5.00 


n6 


Wrigat  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


CHARACTER    WIGS. 


BAI.D   WIG.  CHINESE   WIG. 

Irish  and  Dutch,  Cut  No.  I $4-5° 

Crop,  all  colors 4. 50 

White,  Old  Man 4. 50 

Iron  Gray 4.50 

*Dundreary 5  50 

*Light  Dress  Wig,  with  parting 5.00 

*Gentlemanly  Irish,  with  parting .        .        5.00 

*Bald  Wig 4.50 

*Gray  Dress  Wig,  with  parting 4. 50 

*Clown's,  in  colors 3.75 

Chinaman,  with  Pigtail $2  50,  5.00 

The  above  Wigs  are  kept  in  stock,  except  those  marked  with  a  Star,  which  are  made  to  order. 

BEARDS,  WHISKERS,  MOUSTACHES,  ETC. 

10         ll 

4raL    ^^&^    itur* 

Full  Beard,  on  Wire,  see  Cut  No.  10 SM-75 

Full  Beard,  without  Moustache,  see  Cut  No   6 1  5° 

Chin  Beard  and  Whiskers  combined,  for  Irish  characters       .                IO° 

Imperials,  see  Cut  No.  5     .       .       .       . vl0 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue.  117 


Moustaches  on  Wire .40 

Moustaches  on  Wire,  new  style,  see  Cut  No.  3 .25 

Moustaches  on  Gauze,  see  Cut  No.  4 • «4° 

Side  Whiskers  and  Moustache,  on  Wire,  see  Cut  No.  2,  each 1.50 

Side  Whiskers  without  Moustache,  on  Wire I-00 

Side  Whiskers  without  Moustache,  on  Gauze l-S° 

Santa  Claus  Mask,  Wig  and  Beard  complete      .       .       •       ••      •       •       ■       ...       .  6.00 

Santa  Claus  Beard  (only) ^75 

"         "      Wig  (only) S-°° 

The  last   three  mentioned  can  not  only    be   used   for   personating   "  Santa    Claus,"  but  for 
numerous  other  "  Old  Man  "  characters. 

CRAPE  HAIR. 

For  making  False  Whiskers,  Moustaches,  etc. 
Colors,  black,  white,  light  brown,  dark  brown,  iron  gray  and  red per  yard.  .30 

WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S    POPULAR   MAKE-UP  BOXES. 

No.  1.  Containing   eight  different   colored  sticks  [grease  paints],  for  matching  bald   wigs 
and  making  up  the  face.     Perfectly  harmless,  and  warranted  to  resist  perspiration, 

and  can  be  washed  off  in  three  minutes' time.     Per  box $1.25 

No.  2.  Contains  the  same  number  of  sticks  as  No.  1,  only  half  the  length.     Per  box  .       .  .75 
Carmine.  For  the  face,  to  heighten  the  effect  of  the  burnt  cork  in  negro  characters  ;  a  most 

brilliant  color.     Price  per  packet .3° 

Prepared  Whiting.  For  pantomimes,  clowns'  faces,  Statuary,  etc.    This  is  not  affected  by 

perspiration.     Price  per  box »4° 

Mongolian.  For  Indians,  Mulattoes,  etc.     Price  per  box .30 

Ruddy  Rouge.  For  sunburnt  faces.     Most  essential  for  low  comedy,  country,  or  seamen's 

characters.     Price  per  box .30 

Spirit  Gum,  per  bottle       .                              .25 

Eyebrow  Pencils,  each .25 

Rouge,  per  box, .25 

White,       "  • 25 

Best  Powder,  per  box .75 

Powder  Puffs,  each  • .25 

Hare-feet,  each .35 

The  above  articles  are  the  best  made,  and  will  not  injure  the  skin. 

PREPARED    BURNT   CORK,  FOR   NEGRO   MINSTRELS. 

In  Tin  Boxes,  enough  for  25  performances.     Price  per  box .40 

THEATRE  OR  ILLUMINATING  FIRES. 

Of  the  most  vivid  colors,  and  made  from  the  best  and  purest  chemicals.    In  tin  cans  of  one-half 
and  one  pound. 

Crimson,  per  pound $1.00 

White,          «               1.00 

Green,           "                  I.00 


u8 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


MAGNESIUM    TABLEAUX    LIGHTS. 

A  metal  capable  of  being  ignited  by  a  common  match,  and  burning  with  great  brilliancy,  pro- 
ducing a  light  that  can  be  seen  thirty  miles.     Unequalled  in  beauty  and  brilliancy.     This  is  the  best 
light  for  moonlight  and  statuary.     It  is  so  intense  that  it  causes  gaslight  to  cast  a  shadow.     To  light 
it,  undo  half  an  inch  of  the  metal  and  hold  it  well  in  the  flame. 
Price each  package,  .25    per  doz.  $2.50 


DANCING  CLOGS,  SONG  AND  DANCE  SHOES  AND  RATTLES. 


Red,  Black  or  Blue  Morocco  Clogs,  fancy  stitched,  wood  soles,  all  in  one  piece.     Per  pair 
Brass  Jingles,  plain  round,  with  holes  and  screws,  per  set  of  four 


3.00 
•25 


SONG   AND    DANCE    SHOES. 

12,  14,  16,  18  and  20  inches  long.     Per  pair  .        $5.50 

Wooden   Shoes,  for   Dutch  Comedians,  and 

also  used  extensively  in  dyeing  establishments, 

hat  factories,  etc.,  per  pair 2.00 


Clogs,  Song  and  Dance  Sro:s,  etc.  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  25  cents  extra. 


CLAPPERS. 


No.  3.     Walnut,      6    inches,  per  set  of  4 
"     5.     Rosewood,  $k      "  "  " 


54. 

u 

7 

6. 

Coco, 

Si 

6*. 

<< 

7 

7- 

Ebony, 

S* 

7h- 

(i 

7 

MAKE-UP    BOOK  — HOW   TO    MAKE   UP. 

A  Practical  Guide  for  Amateurs,  Etc. 

Showing  by  a  series  of  novel  illustrations,  the  manner  in  which  the  face  may  be  "made  up"  to 
represent  the  different  stages  of  life,  viz.  :  Youth,  Manhood,  Maturity,  Old  Age,  etc.,  with  twenty- 
three  colored  illustrations 


Price  ■_._.-.----. 

Brudder  Bone's  Book  of  Stump  Speeches  and  Burlesque  Orations  ;  i{ 
Tambo's  End  Men's  Minstrel  Gags;  144  pages,  i6mo. 


pages,  i6mo. 


•50 
•30 
•3° 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


119 


STEAM    ENGINES,    ATTACHMENTS,    ETC. 


No.  3. 


No.  5. 


No.  1.  No.  2.  No.  4. 

THE  NEW  WONDER  STEAM  ENGINE  REDUCED  TO  FIFTY  CENTS. 

No.  1.  This  is  a  real  model  Steam  Engine,  with  solid  brass  boiler,  plated  fly-wheel  and  cylinder, 
and  metal  pulley  wheel  for  connecting  and  running  small  machinery,  such  as  a  circular  saw,  up  saw,  lathe, 
planer,  etc.  This  little  engine  will  run  with  great  speed  for  one  half  hour  at  one  filling  of  the  boiler. 
With  proper  care  it  will  last  a  life  time.  It  is  perfectly  safe  for  any  child  to  handle  ;  the  self-acting 
safety  valve  renders  explosion  impossible. 
Sent  by  mail,  with  full  directions  on  receipt  of  price        .__--.--        .50 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S  NEW  TOY  STEAM  ENGINE,  THE  ECLIPSE. 

No.  2.     Points  of  superiority  :  Large  boiler,  running  parts  best  proportioned  to  get  the  most 
work;  improved  lamp  filled  without  removing  wick,  2  "speeds"  to  belt  pulley,  thus  better  adapting 
it  for  running  model  (or  toy)  machinery;  boiler  held  more  securely  on  the  stand,  and  feet  of  stand 
have  holes  in  them  for  fastening  down.     Packed  in  box,  with  lamp,  wicks,  etc. 
By  mail,  each        --.----...._...        $1.00 


120  Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


THE    SMALL    HORIZONTAL     ENGINE. 

No.  3.     Length,  6 inches  ;  height,  44  inches;  weight,  21  oz.  ;  heavy  Brass  Boiler  (no  unsolder- 
ing), regular  Safety  Valve,  Brass  Pipe  connecting  Boiler  and  Steam  Chest,  1  inch  stroke,  more  than 
1,000  revolutions  per  minute  ;  has  eight  times  the  power  of  our  famous  little  Half  Dollar  Engine. 
Packed  in  box  complete,  with  lamp,  funnel,  etc. 
Price,  each,  by  express      .--_..--------    $2.50 

By  mail,  post  paid  ___..--..-----  2.75 


THE    LARGE    HORIZONTAL     ENGINE. 

No.  4.     It  is  7  inches  long  by  4  inches  high,  with  4^  inch  fly-wheel  ;  weight,  4  lbs.     Heavy 
Eiveted  Brass  Boiler,  with  Safety  Valve.     Packed  complete,  in  box,  with  lamp,  funnel,  etc. 
Price,  each,  by  express      -         ---._..---.--     $3.50 
By  mail,  post  paid  ---___._..._-.  4.00 


THE     WALKING-BEAM     ENGINE. 

No.  5.     It  is  7  inches  long  by  7  inches  high,  with  4  inch  fly-wheel  and  4!  inch  walking-beam. 
Heavy  Riveted  Brass  Boiler,  with  Safety  Valve.     Packed  complete,  in  box,  with  lamp,  funnel,  etc. 
Price,  each,  by  express      -----..--.--.-    $5.00 

Cannot  be  sent  by  mail. 

Note. —  These  Engines  are  all  manufactured  by  an  experienced  machinist,  and  we  warrant  them 
to  be  perfect  running  models. 

STEAM     WHISTLES     FOR     STEAM     ENGINES. 

Can  be  attached  in  a  moment  to  any  of  our  engines.     Has  a 
Slide  Valve,  and  can  be  opened  and  shut  at  pleasure. 
Price,  each         -        -        •        -        -        -        -        -        -        .15 

THE     LIGHTNING    ELECTRIC     MOTOR. 

With    Group    of    Six    Figures. 

This  Motor  is  new,  handsome,  and  very  effective  when  attached  to  the  figures  which  accompany 
it ;  it  will  put  them  in  motion,  and  cause  them  to  work  rapidly  tor  at  least  one-half  hour.     It  is  simple 
and  harmless,  and  will  last  for  an  indefinite  period  if  directions  are  followed,  making  a  simple  study 
in  electricity  and  a  pleasant  home  amusement.     Packed  in  box,  complete,  with  figures. 
Price,  complete         -        -        - $2.75 


Motor  alone 


1.50 


Group  of  Figures  alone 1,50 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


121 


THE    HOLLY    STEAM    ENGINE. 


A  very  skilful  manufacturer  is  now  making  for  us  the  Holly  Steam  Engine  whiih  is  strong,  safe, 
and  easily  managed.  No  engines  of  the  same  capacity  and  finish  have  been  sold  for  less  than  $25. 
The  Holly  Engine  has  a  strong  cast  iron  frame,  on  which  rests  the  brass  boiler.  This  is  a  perfect 
working  steam  engine  in  all  its  parts.  It  is  just  the  engine  for  parents  to  purchase  who  wish  to 
interest  their  children  in  mechanics.  A  boy  can  make  a  good  size  toy  saw  mill,  grist  mill  or  machine 
shop,  and  the  Holly  Engine  will  run  the  machinery  with  ease.  It  is  especially  adapted  for  the  use  of 
high  schools  and  academies,  when  teaching  the  principles  of  the  steam  engine.  It  cannot  explode, 
as  it  has  perfect- acting  safety  valves.  Description,  brass  boiler,  7^x3^;  outside  jacket,  8£  x  4^  :  fly- 
wheel, 5^  diameter;  cylinder,  f ;  stroke,  if. 


Price,  each,  boxed 


$10.00 


122 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


FORCE    PUMPS. 

This  Cut  represents  our  Single 
Pump,  No.  160.  It  is  5  inches  long 
and  4f  inches  high,  made  of  metal, 
takes  water  by  suction,  and  will 
throw  from  10  to  20  feet.  Can  be 
run  by  any  engine  by  belt. 
Packed'complete  in  wood  box  $1.50 
By  mail 1.75 


HOT    AIR    TOYS. 


No.  11    ..25  cts. 


N0.8 50cts.       No.  15. . .  .25  cts.       No.  12.  ...25  cts. 


No.  1^ KOetg. 


Ho.  9 75  cts. 


N 


.20  c* 


No.  2 25  cts. 


No.   14 


No.  10 50  eta. 


These  figures  can  be  run  by  any  of  our  engines,  or  hot  air  from  tbe  stove-pipe,  and 
are  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  price.  When  ordering,  please  order  by  numbers.  Pul- 
leys, 25  cents  per  dozen. 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


123 


LIST  OF  BOOKS   ON  SPORTS,    GAMES,  RULES,  AND  ADVICE. 


The  following  books  are  carefully  selected  as  giving  the  best  information  on  their  subjects  of  any 
in  the  market.     They  are  all  of  the  latest  publications,  profusely  illustrated,  and  give  full  particulars 
of  the  sports  or  games  to  which  they  are  dedicated.     This  list  is  revised  twice  a  year  to  keep  up  with 
the  times,  and  to  add  any  new  books  which  may  be  published  in  the  meantime. 
All  Books  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  Price. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S  MANUAL  ON 
BOXING,  INDIAN  CLUBS  AND 
DUMBBELLS.     Latest  and  best 25 

LAWS     OF    ATHLETICS.      By    Wm. 

Wood 25 

MODERN  GYMNAST.  By  Chas.  Spen- 
cer.    120  illustrations 50 

BLAKIE'S    HOW    TO  GET  STRONG 

AND  HOW  TO  STAY  SO $1.00 

MANUAL  OF  PHYSICAL  EXER- 
CISES. By  Wm.  Wood.  The  best 
work  published 1.50 

PROFESSIONAL      GYMNAST     AND 

ACROBAT.     By  Wm.  Z.  Ripley 50 

WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S  BASE  BALL 
GUIDE  FOR  1884.  Containing  Sche- 
dules of  all  the  games  to  be  played  by 
the  League,  Union,  American  and 
College  Association  Clubs  for  1S84, 
Playing  Rules  and  Constitution  of  the 
Union.  d  Records  of  the  nine  best 
Batsmen  and  Fielders  in  the  country  . .     .10 

SPAULDING'S  BASE  BALL  GUIDE..     .10 

RUGBY  FOOT  BALL  RULES,  AND 
REFEREE'S  BOOK.  Wright  &  Dit- 
son,  Official  Publishers 15 

FOOT  BALL  RECORDS  OF  THE 
AMERICAN  TEAMS.  Wright  & 
Ditson,  Official  Publishers 25 

CRICKET  GUIDE.     By  Bryan  of  London     .25 

SCIENCE  OF    SELF-DEFENCE.      By 

Edmund.     Price 75 

ART  OF  SPARRING    By  Ned  Donnlley    .25 

BOXING  MADE  EASY 13 

ATHLETIC  SPORTS  FOR  BOYS.     194 

illustrations  of  all  kinds  of  sports 75 

THE  PLAY  GROUND  OR  OUT  DOOR 

GAMES  FOR  BOYS 50 


MANLY  EXERCISES,  SPORTS  AND 
GAMES $ 

INDIAN  CLUBS.     By  Kehoe: 

MODERN  FENCER.     By  Capt.  T.  Grif- 
fiths   

PEDESTRIANISM.     By  John  Goulding. 

THE  ART  OF  SWIMMING.  By 
Wrightman 

N.  Y.CLIPPER  ALMANAC 

LAWN  TENNIS  RULES  FOR  1884 

LACROSSE  RULES,  Intercollege 

CLOG  DANCING.     By  W.  F.  Bacon. . . . 

SPORTING  RULES.     By  Ed.  James.  . .. 

PRACTICAL  TRAINING.  By  Ed. 
James 

HEALTH,  STRENGTH  AND  MUSCLE. 
By  Ed.  James 

ROWING.     English 

MODERN  OARSMAN.     By  Ed.  James.. 

THE  SAILING  BOAT  AND  ITS  MAN- 
AGEMENT.    ByC.  E.  Prescott 

PRACTICAL  BOAT  SAILING.  A  com- 
plete treatise  on  the  management  of 
Small  Boats  and  Yachts,  with  Nautical 
Terms 

THE  AMERICAN  TRAPPER  AND 
TRAP  MAKERS  GUIDE.  A  com- 
plete work  on  Trapping,  Snaring  and 
Netting  of  Animals  and  Birds 

MODERN   ARCHER 

WITCHERY  OF  ARCHERY 

JERRY  THOMAS'  BAR-TENDERS 
GUIDE 

MODERN  POCKET  HOYLE,  Taper... 

"  '*  "  Board... 

"  "  Cloth... 

AMERICAN  CHECKER  PLAYER.  By 
Barker 


1.50 

1. 00 

•5° 
•25 


•25 
•15 
•IS 
•25 
•25 

•5° 

•5° 
•25 
•25 

•So 


•So 

•2S 

1.50 

•So 

•50 

•75 

1.25 

•75 


124 


Wright  &  Ditson's  Illustrated  Catalogue. 


COMPLETE   POKER   PLAYER 50 

MARACHE'S    MANUAL   OF   CHESS, 

BACKGAMMON  AND  DOMINOES     .50 

CHECKERS.     By  Spayth l 75 

DOMINOES.     By  Burgess 25 

CUSHING'S  MANUAL 75 

PARLOR  TRICKS  WITH  CARDS 30 

GAMBLERS'  TRICKS  WITH  CARDS. 

By  a  Reformed  Gambler 30 

FIRESIDE  GAMES 30 

FIRESIDE  MAGICIAN 30 

HOW  TO  HUNT  AND  TRAP  all  kinds 

of  Animals   and   Game,  together  with 

descriptions  of  Outfits  and   Localities. 

By  Joseph  H.  Batty $1.50 

FUR,    FIN    AND    FEATHER,    contains 

the  Game   Laws  of  all  the  States  and 

Canada 50 


HOW  TO  CAMP  OUT,  gives  full  infor- 
mation  for  large  or  small  parties.     By 

John  M.  Gould $1.00 

HOW     TO     AMUSE     AN     EVENING 

PARTY 30 

HOW  TO  MAKE  UP.  A  practical  guide.  .50 
HUDSON'S  PRIVATE  THEATRICALS  .30 
BRUDDER  BONES  STUMP  SPEECHES  .30 

END-MEN'S  MINSTREL  GAGS 30 

DICK'S  DUTCH,  FRENCH  AND  YAN- 
KEE DIALECT  RECITATIONS    .      .30 
DICK'S    IRISH    DIALECT    RECITA- 
TIONS  30 

CHESS,  BY  MARCHES 50 

ROLLER  SKATING.  Containing  in- 
struction for  Plain  and  Fancy  Skating, 
Tricks,  Feats'  Rules  for  Polo  on 
Skates,  etc,  etc.     Just  Published 35 


COMIC    MASKS,    DOMINOES,   ETC. 


Each. 
French  Wire  Masks,  Cut  No.   1         -         -         -        .        .......  50 

Satin  Domino     "  "  3  .........  ^0 

Cambric    "        "  "  3 .10 

Paper  Masks  in  an  endless  variety  of  styles,  qualities,  etc.,  from  20  cents  to  $1.50  each, 
cheerfully  quoted  to  Masquerade  Parties,  Carnivals  and  Costumers. 


Per  Doz. 

$5.00 

5.00 

•75 

Prices 


CAMPAIGN  GOODS. 


%lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltUIIIII<IIJi!i; 

i'lyiinniiNiMjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiji'lfflk 

liitoiiyiitinwiii' 

^illlllHllIIlIJJijttlllliiimillliTiilllliiilllHillllllK 

38OISI!!  iiiiaiiiniiHii' 

JiULIi:  illlllfflik 

'"Iriiiijiiiiiiiiiinii[,::::iini:inyi^ 


FULL  AND  COMPLETE   OUTFITS   FOR  THE  GOMSNG 

PRESIDENTIAL    CAMPAIGN. 


UNIFORMS, 

CAPS  and   CAPES, 
LEGGINGS, 
BELTS, 
FLAGS, 

BANNERS, 


TORCHES, 

ILLUMINATING    GOODS, 
LANTERNS, 

COLORED    FIRES, 
CANDLE    HOLDERS, 
BADGES, 


Etc.,  Etc. 
SPECIAL    PRICES    TO \_CLUBS. 


THEATRE  OR  ILLUMINATING  FIRES 


In,  Tin   Cans  of  One-Half  and  One  Pound. 


Crimson,  per  pound 
White,  per  pound 


iI.OO 
I.OO 


Green,  per  pound 
Gold,  per  pound 


>i.oo 
1.2; 


For  Full  Particulars    and  Prices  send   for  circular  of    Campaign  Goods 
which  we  will  mail  free  to  any  address. 

WRIGHT    &    DITSON, 

580    Washington    Street,  BOSTON,    MASS. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON'S 


EUREKA  ROWING  MAC** 


