Go ogle 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 



Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : / /books . google . com/ 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB 



GAZETTE. 



c 




AN OFFICIAL RECORD 



OF THE 



$un0, Jlaa0. anb €)ther fomijB of the .01. 



VOLUME VI. 



DARLING AND SON, 

MINBRVA STBAM PRINTING OFFICE, 85, EASTCHEAP, LONDON, K.C. 

1883. 



Digitized by 



Transportation 
Library 



PREFACE. 



A CAREFUL author will so concoct his prefaxje as to entice praise from the unwary 
critic. That dangerous animal, it is well known, feeds only on prefaces, with, for 
sauce, a snilF of the paper knife with which he has cut a few leaves of the volume 
under review. Fortunately a preface addressed to such kind and indulgent critics 
as the members of our Club need not resort to these ignoble devices. 

The Editors have all but finished their work, and the Sixth Volume of the 
Gazette rises against them in judgment. It has been their aim to make it a faithful 
history of the life of the Club during the year 1883 ; and a history which shall 
be worthy of the traditions of the Club by the manner in which it has been told. 
If they have succeeded, their thanks are due to the members of the Club who have 
supported them so constantly, and especially to Theo. Godlee, Ashley Barrett, Fred. 
Williams, H. G. A. Brown, and the N. H. family. One name has been omitted, 
and it is a great satisfaction to the Editors to feel that the Club has secured as Editor 
of the Gazette for the ensuing year so constant and valued a contributor in the 
past as R. G. Francis. For him they ask a continuance of the kindness which has 
been shown to them. 




Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX. 



FAOB 

A NoTel spin on the Goodwin Sands on a Bicycle 48 

A Ride Across France into Switzerland 238, 251 

A Tonr in Yorkshire 221 

A Tonr subsequent to that of the Rhine Eight 149, 172 

A Three Days* Tour 5 

A Trip to Deyonshire 208 

A Trip to the Hooter 147 

After the Bath 102 

AU Round the Wheel 27, 38, 46, 71, 76, 94, 101, 110, 118, 126, 143, 
156, 163, 168, 179, 191, 199, 210, 215, 239 

Amateur Championships 160, 167, 179 

An Aimless Ramble .. 209,229 

An Evil Eye 179 

An EpiUph 178 

Annual Dinner 233, 242 

Annual Greneral Meeting ... 9 

AnnuAl Race Meeting 129 

Analysis of Handicaps 12 

Another March Valentine 36 

Ashridge Park, etc 14 

Autumn Race Meeting ... 218 

Bank Holiday Ride 11 

Bath Trial 58, 66, 74, 83, 90 

Bicycles in the Alps 180 

Bicycling in Switzerland ... 32, 53, 61, 69, 77, 108, 117, 133 
Boxing Day Paperchase 236, 252 

Cambridge University Bicycle Club 3, 27, 237 

Club Meets 22, 3h, 42, 51, 60, 69, 76, 86, 95, 102, in8, 117, 124, 
133, 140, 147, 155, 159, 166, 171. 178, 183, 190.194, 
202, 207, 215, 218, 226 

Club Runs ; their History and their Lesson 29 

C.T.C. Handbook 163 

Codification of Amateur Law 205 

Committee ... 1, 18, 30, 50, 66, 89, 98, 214, 165, 205, 234, 242 

Concerning Celluloid Collars 162 

Continental Touring 141 

Correspondence 8, 15, 28, 39, 46, 54, 62, 70, 79, 93, 111, 127, 136, 
142, 167, 174, 187, 191, 198, 204, 211, 221, 229, 





287, 249 


Disclaimer 


36 


Dramatic Society 


10, 20 


Duty 


105 


Easter Run from Bath 


44 


Easter Runs 


45 


Echoes 


14 


Editor's Declaration .. 


19 


Fads of Former Tears 


65 


General Meet at Dunstable 


99 


General Meet at Halliford 


67 


General Meet at Harrow 


189 


Gleanings from a Club Tea Table 


48 


Holidays 


169 


Honour to Whom Honour is Due 


227 


How I Induced Her Mother... 


4 


Hundred Miles Record Beaten 


175 





FAOB 


XU |g| Plim* MM II ... «(* ... ... 




Jottings on the Midlands 


210 


Lacrosse 


214 


Lawn Tennis ... 


106, 115, 138 


London to Edinburgh 


200 


March Valentines 


28 


More About Eastern Counties 


174 


Notes by the N mtn Milestone 


98 


Notes from the Gallery 


22 


Notes on a Scotch Tour 


184, 196 


October Runs in the Sonth-East 


235 


On the Track 


134 


O.U.Bi.O. V. L.B.C 


128, 132 


Our Enemies 


97 


Our Lazy Friend 


49 


Our Franco-Swiss Tour of 1882 


28, 37 


Querulous Queries by a Quizzing Querent ... 


216 


Qnills 27, 89, 47, 56, 64, 72, 80, 87, 95, 103, 112. 119, 128, 136, 144, 



152, 156, 164, 168, 176, 179, 187, 192, 200, 204, 212, 216, 

232, 240, 250 



Ravings of a Cyclomaniac 


7 


Road Competitions 


213 


Smoking Concert 


19, 36, 234, 248 


South-East Paperchase 


108 


Special General Meeting 


122, 131, 250 


Swan Song and Cackle 


17 


Table of Records 


162 


Tandem Bicycle 


248 


Terpsichorean 


6 


The Amateur ... 


157 


The Captain 


73 


The Committee 


89 


The District Captain 


41 


The Editor 


121 


The Member's Brother 


177 


The Member's Sibter 


181 


The Member's Dog 


201 


The Mentor 


13 


The Private Member 


145 


The Potterer Unmasked 


193 


The Secretary 


163 


The Sporting Prophet 


81 


The Treasurer 


187 


The Young Enthusiast 


217 


To Derbyshire and Back 


220 


Trials of the Trial 


86 


Tricycling 


18 


Why We Don't Come 


228 


Winter Amusements 


225 


Winter Riding.. 


241 


Your Friends 


118 



Google 





An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings op the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 1.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rights resenrsd.] 



January 4, 1883. 



OONTHNTS. 



PAOS 

Editorial 1 

Committee ; 1 

Annual Report 2 

Blue Book 2 

Greneral Meeting 2 

L.B.C. Dramatic Society 2 

Cambridge University Bicycle Club 8 

How I induced her mother to bring her to the West District Ball 4 



Exchange List— Changes of Address 4 

Terpsichorean 6 

A Three Days* Tour f. 6 

Ravings of a Cydomaniao.— No. XIL 7 

Echoes 7 

Correspondence 8 

Musical Bicyclists 8 

Answer to Correspondent 8 



Tks next Gazeite will be published on Thursday, 8th 
February. Copy should be sent in not later than 
Tuesday the 6th prox. 

As our members will have learnt by the Hon. See's 
circular, the Committee have decided not to make any 
official nominations of Officers or Committeemen to the 
next General Meeting. A feeling has pervaded the Club 
for some time that nominations should be made by indi- 
vidual members and not by the Committee as a body, and 
we believe that it is in deference to this feeling that our 
present Committee have come to the conclusion expressed 
in the circular sent out. Whether this conclusion is wise 
or not will be decided by the action of the 1883 Committee, 
and though we are strongly of opinion that any Committee 
of our Club is or will be the best judge of the merits of 
embryo Club politicians, we must confess to a wish to see 
the nominations to office made by individual members if it 
is at all practicable. Nominations by a Committee must 
allways be liable to the suspicion of being the nomination 
of a clique, though there is not the least doubt that in the 
case of the "London" the suspicion is unfounded and 
unjust. We could wish that the rule relative to the 
attendance of the rank and file at Committee Meetings 
were less stringent, so that unofficial members could attend 
and judge for themselves how the business of the Club is 
carried on. Surely a rule which gave the Committee 
power to exclude ordinary members from its debates would 
be sufficient. 



It behoves those members who are in favour of the new 
system on trial for 1883 to be up and doing, as we under- 
stand that if it is unsuccessful the old plan will be resorted 
to for next year. 



COMMITTER 



At a meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 4th 
December, 1882, the following gentleman was elected a 
member of the Club : — 

Namoi Froposer. Seconder. 

Auguste Malempre, 19, Lower 
PhUUmore Place, Kensington ... W. T. Thorn. O. Thorn. 

It was decided to award Racing Caps to the following 
gentlemen : — W. K. Adam, M. H. Jephson, C. A. E. Pollock, 
H. R. Reynolds, and J. S. Whatton. 

The following resolution was carried unanimoasly 

That no Officer or Committeeman be nominated officially 
by the Committee at the next General Meeting for the 
1883 Committee." 

The name of E. E. Leeds was struck off the Club list in 
accordance with Rule 18. 

At a meeting held on Monday, 18th December, 1882, the 
following resignations were accepted : — G. T. Langridge 
and M. B. O'Reilly. 

It was decided to hold the Annual General Meeting on 
Thursday, 1st February, 1883. 

A letter was read from the Stanley Bicycle Club inviting 
the L.B.C. to allow their name to appear in the list of 



Digitized by 



Google 



# 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



patrons of their Annual Show. After some little discussion 
this was agrei^d to. 

There were fourteen meetings of the present Committee 
last year. The following is the attendance score of the 
Committeemen : — 

Out of a possible 14 : Eniest Barrett 7, Boyce 4, H. G. A. 
Brown 14, Buckler 14, Coleman 14, Godlee* 13, Hough 13, 
Jolly 9, F. W. Morris 11, N. B. Morris 11, Naylor 3, 
Nops 14, Price 13, Scrutton 13, S. P. Smith 13, F. M. 
Williams 12, W. J. Williams 14. 

Out of a possible 12 ; Ashley Barrett 7, Arthur Herbert 6. 

Out of a possible 6 : R M. Gruggen 1. 

On 13th February F. M. Williams was elected Editor of 
the Gazette, and on 27th February Arthur Herbert was 
elected as his successor on the Committee. Ashley Barrett 
was elected on the same date. R. M. Gruggen was elected 
on 14th August in the place of H. Jennings, resigned. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



ANNUAL REPORT. 

Members are requested to send in to me at once accounts 
of tours, and also notes of distances of 100 miles, or over, 
ridden in one day. 

Racing members are requested to let me have lists of 
prizes won by them during the year. 

I must apologise for not having this notice put in the 
last Gazette, and shall be much obliged if members will 
reply to this promptly, E. S. Pbice, Hon. Sec. 



BLUE BOOK. 
Any alterations of addresses, districts, etc., that members 
wish to make, should be sent in to me as soon as possible. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



GENERAL MEETING. 
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the 
"London" (late "King's Head") Tavern, Fenchurch 
Street, E.C., on Thursday, Ist February, 1883, at 
6.30 p.m. 

Under Rule 30, no nomination or other motion can be 
brought forward at the meeting, unless notice in writing 
of the motion shall have been sent to me at least 14 days 
before that date ; the last day is therefore the 18th instant. 

An agenda paper, containing particulars of all motions, 
etc. to be considered at the meeting, will be sent to members 
as soon after the 18th January as possible. 

The report and balance sheet for 1882 will also be sent 
round in due course. 

The following motions and nominations have already 
been received : — 

Motion by Mr. W. A. Smith— 

"ThAt the Club award a certain number of medals (such number 
to be hereafter decided upon) to such membexB of the L.B.G* who, on 



the day of the Bath Trial, shall complete the 100 miles from Bath to 
Hounslow, on tricydes, within twelve hours. The medals to be similar 
to those given for the District Attendance Prizes, but of gold instead 
of silver, and suitably engraved." 

Motion by Mr. H. R. Reynolds — 

"That the Annual Bace Meeting of the L.B.C. for 1883 be held at 
the Crystal Palace." 

Motion by Mr. T. E. Scrutton— 

(1.) "In Rule 11, to insert before 'member of the Committee,' 
' past and present,' and to insert after such words, ' or members of the 
Club, being at the time an officer of either the O.U.Bi.C. or C.U.Bi.C.' 

(2.) " That there be an entrance fee of half a crown for the Bath 
Trial." 

Nominations. 

Hon. Sec £. S. Price nominated by Theo. Godlee. 

District Captains. 

N.E, Theo. Godlee nominated by F. Jolly. 

N,W, P. Dalton „ W. J. WiUiams. 

Committee, 
F™oUy^.^" I "nominated by Theo. Godlee. 

T. B. Scrutton... u F. JoUy. 

N,W, C. [Newman n Ashley Barrett. 

W. J. Wimams n E. S. Price. 

G. P. Coleman... n Dr. Owen Coleman. 

S.E. Frank Kinder ... it F. M. WiUiams. 

A. Barker n Ashley Barrett 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



L.B.C. DRAMATIC SOCIETY. 
(Copy of Circular sent round December 22nd to the Club.) 

Dear Sir, — With the consent of the Captain, the Dramatic Society 
have resolved upon giving a Performance, to take place at St. George's 
HaU, Langham Place, on Saturday, February 17th, 1888. The piece 
selected is One Hundred Thousand Pounds," to be preceded by a 
Farce. 

If you are not already a subscriber, may I ask you to become one, 
since upon the support accorded it by members the success of the 
imdertaking wiU chiefly depend. The subscription is 5s., which entitles 
the subscriber to a stall, price 5s. — Awaiting your tarly reply, I am, 
dear sir, very truly yours, Alfred Barker, Hon. Sec. 

On application to the Acting Manager, R. M. Gruggen, 
Lynton Villa, Grosvenor Road, Richmond, reserved stalls, 
5s. each, or five stalls for £l Is., balcony (unreserved) 2s. 6d. 
each. Members of the Society are entitled to a stall free 
on application before the date of the performance, and it 
would greatly help the Acting Manager if an early demand 
were made, so as to estimate numbers. 

It is requested, though not compulsory, that gentlemen 
will appear in evening dress, and, to avoid disappointment, 
it is as well to state that no one except officials will be 
admitted on the sti^e. 

Any further information can be obtained of the Acting 
Manager, or of Alf. Barker, Chepstow Road, Croydon. 

N.B. — Members of 1881 will not be asked to subscribe 
again for this season, but will remain still members of the 
Society. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY BICYCLE CLUB. 

The annual long-distance road competition in connection 
with the above club came off on Wednesday, November 1. 
The weather was very unfavourable, there being a strong 
wind against the competitors, and owing to this and the 
state of the roads the course was shortened from fifty to 
about forty-two miles. The route laid out was from St. 
Ives through Eltisley and Potton, and skirting Biggleswade, 
home by Barton. Seven riders started, which included 
E. H. Brown, last year's winner by 4min. from Whatton. 
Having travelled to St. Ives by train, Mr. 6. D. Day, 
captain of the club, sent them off shortly after twelve o'clock. 
E. H. Brown, St. John's, assumed the lead, and made the 
pace until reaching Biggleswade (20 miles), having had to 
face a very strong wind, so strong that more than one of 
the competitors walked part of the way. Upon getting out 
of the wind just after passing Biggleswade, J. S. Whatton, 
Trinity, who had been close behind Brown, took the lead, 
and at once commenced to force the pace. At Orwell Hill, 
six miles from home, Whatton began to draw away, and he 
eventually won by 3min, the full time being 3 hours 30min. ! ! 
J. D. Batten, Trinity, was third, twenty two minutes behind 
Brown ; whilst A. B. W. Whatton, Trinity, whose back- 
wheel tyre came off, was fourth, two minutes in the rear of 
Batten. The other starters were : C. L. Schwind, Trinity; 
L. C. Carr, Trinity ; and A. W. Rumney, Trinity Hall. 
J. S. Whatton, Trinity, holds the 20-guinea challenge cup 
for the year. Mr. A. J. Crichton, Trinity, the winner of 
the race in 1880, kindly attended to the requirements of 
tha riders. 

The Michaelmas Term club races came off on the bicycle 
path on Wednesday afternoon last. The weather was fine, 
but a strong wind was against the competitors in the early 
part of the lap. Notwithstanding the fact that the 
committee decreased Olive's start in the final of the mile, 
the Johnian won very easily. The freshmen* s race did not 
bring out any promising new blood. C. L. Schwind won 
the five miles race easily, as did J. S. Whatton the ten miles 
event. Judges : C. A. E. Pollock. B.A., Trinity, and G. D. 
Day, B.A., St. John's. Details : 

One Mile Handicap, — First Heat : E. H. Brown, St, 
John's, 75 yds. 1 ; J. S. Whatton, Trinity, scratch 2 ; A. S. 
Hicks, Christ's, 100 yds. 3 ; R. F. Cooke, Caius, 150 yds, ; 
M. G. Foster, Trinity, 200 yds. 0. The limit man led until 
entering the last lap, when Brown, Hicks, and W^hatton 
passed him in the order named. Whatton got into second 
place 250 yds. from home, and did try his best to beat Brown, 
who won by six yards ; a similar distance separated second 
and third ; Forster was a bad fourth. Time, 3min. 8Jsec. — 
Second Heat : E. J. Olive, St. John's, 200 yds. 1 ; A. B. W. 
Whatton, Trinity, 75 yds. 2 ; G. N. Latham, Trinity Hall, 
125 yds. 3; M. Crosse, Magdalene, 176 yds. 0. The limit 
man was never headed, and won very easily ; ten yards 



divided second and third. Time, 2min. 55sec. — Final 
Heat : Olive, 1 ; A. B. Whatton, 2 ; Brown, 0. J. S. 
Whatton did not start. Owing to Olive's performance in 
the second heat, the committee met and decided to decrease 
his allowance by fifty yards ; this, however, did not have 
any effect on the result, for the " dark one " again won 
easily, this time by about seventy-five yards ; Whatton beat 
Brown in the last lap by twenty yards. Time, 3min. Ifsec. 

Four Miles Freshmen s Race. — A. W. Rumney, Trinity 
Hall, 1 ; J. H. Masters, Trinity, 2 ; E. F. Eliot, Trinity, ; 
H. S. Izard, Trinity Hall, 0. The latter retired after 
completing three miles. Rumney assumed the lead in the 
second lap, and, although hard pressed by Masters in the 
middle part of the last lap, he held his ground and won 
easily. Masters easing off on finding pursuit hopeless ; Eliot 
was 120 yards behind second man. Time, 15min. 6sec. 

Five Miles liace. (Competitors against Oxford and 
London B.C. debarred.)— C. L. Schwind, Trinity, 1 ,- G. N. 
Latham, Trinity, 2 ; A. S. Hicks, Christ's, 3 ; J. D. Batten, 
Trinity, ; L. C. Carr, Trinity, 0. Schwind took the lead 
at the start, closely followed by Hicks. The six competitors 
rode in the same order and in close company until half the 
distance had been traversed, when Cooke began to fall into 
the rear. At the third mile the Caius rider was more than 
half a lap to the bad, whilst at the fouirth he was overlapped, 
and he shortly afterwards retired. Schwind continued to 
hold the lead until half a mile from the finish, when Latham 
put on a good spurt, and for the first time assumed the 
lead. Schwind, however, stuck close behind Latham, and 
250 yards from home passed him, eventually Avinning by 
eight yards. Hicks, who rode well, was beaten for second 
place by three or four yards ; Batten was fourth, thirty 
yards behind Hicks, Cooke was last. Time, 18min. ll|sec. 

Ten Miles Itace.—J. S. Whatton, Trinity, 1 ; A. B. W. 
Whatton, Trinity, 2 ; E. H. Brown, St. John's, 0. J. S. 
Whatton went off with the lead, and was attended by his 
brother, Brown being well up ; this order was maintained 
until the seventh lap, when Brown took a turn in front and 
remained there until completing the third mile, when J. S. 
Whatton took the lead again. At three and a half miles 
A. B. Whatton went to the front and made the pace for two 
miles, after which Brown did the same for a couple of miles, 
being displaced at the seventh mile by J. S. Whatton. The 
Johnian again led at the ninth mile, but both Whattons 
were close up to him, and half a mile from home J. S. 
Whatton spurted to the front. All were close together on 
entering the last lap, but the race was never in doubt, and | 
Whatton sen. won easily by eight yards ; about six yards 
divided second and third. j 

Mr. F. B. Westcott, who has ridden the last two years in 
the team against the London Bicycle Club, and who 
graduated as senior classic last year, has been elected to a 
fellowship at Trinity College.— From The Field, November, i 
nth, 1882. I 



Google ] 



Digitized by 



4 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



HOW I INDUCED HER MOTHER TO BRING HER 
TO THE WEST DISTRICT BALL. 

A SEASONABLE REMINISCENCE. 

I am induced to recount this incident in my bicycling 
career, not on account of there being anything strange or 
uncommon in it, but merely in the hope of its being of use 
to some other member who may possibly chance to be placed 
in the same predicament as I was. 

Deeply wrapped in thought, I was riding towards Ham- 
mersmith along a well-known wood-paved thoroughfare. 
Heaven knows I had good cause for thought ; all my 
ingenuity was at work ; all my inventive faculties were 
busy ; all my machinatory talents were occupied. But in 
vain. It was the day of the West District Ball, and her 
mother would not allow her to come to it. Now who was 
this lady ? Well, she was simply the most lovely, accom- 
plished, sweet-tempered girl I had ever seen. I liad met 

her only once, but I loved devotedly, and her name was 

but why should I divulge it ? No 1 wild horses shall not 
tear it from those deep recesses of my inner consciousness 

where it is deposited ! therefore she shall be known as . 

Ab I have said before, her mother would not allow her to 
come to the ball. Imagine my despair! In vain I begged, 
prayed, and entreated ; it was indeed in vain. The old 
lady was one of those curious people who believe 
in spiritualism ; indeed, she went further in her belief 
than most people— affirming that the spirits guided 
her in everything, and showed her what she was to do by 
their manifestations. So that the only answer I was able 
to get to my final request was—" No, it could not be ; 
unless (Oh! what vast oceans of hope that 'unless' 
spread out before my enraptured vision) — unle&s," she said, 
" the spirits clearly manifested that it was their mandate 
for her to attend the ball with her daughter." (Alas ! this 
latter part condensed my vast oceans into a microscopic 
dewdrop of hope.) After this I could obtain nothing 
further from her, and was so thrown into the state of 
perplexity I have before alluded to. I had purchased two 
ladies' tickets on the chance of the spirits following the 
example of Barkis, but hitherto they had remained 
obdurate. At last the day of the ball arrived. Ever 
since buying the tickets I had constantly carried them 
in my breast pocket, but as yet saw no chance of their 
being used. So, as I have already said, I was riding towards 
Hammersmith, when I saw approaching me in a hansom 

and her mother. As the cab passed me, shook 

her head with a rueful countenance. I was not able to 
deduce from this whether she meant that there had been no 
manifestation, or an adverse one ; so, determined to find 
out my fate, I turned down one of the streets on my left- 
hand and sped back by a road parallel to that which I had 
recently been going along. As I was racing along, regard- 
less alike of fines or imprisonment, an idea seized me. If 
the spirits would not grant a manifestation, I must. But 



how ? At first I had not a notion, but by degrees a plan, 
vast, and at first somewhat alarming, began to loom out, 
vague and shadowy, in those inner recesses already alluded 
to. My mind travelled back to the far-distant days of 
childhood, and I remembered the bounding ball of boyhood's 
boisterous days. Was it not made of India-rubber ? Were 
not, also, the tyrea of my wheels ? If one bounded, why 
should not the other ? At any rate I could but try. Such 
were the thoughts that came hurtling through my brain, 
when suddenly I found I had again reached the road along 

which was travelling, that is to say, if she had not 

already turned off. However, I had not gone three yards 
along the crowded highway before half a mile ahead I per- 
ceived two omnibuses broken down, completely blocking 
up the road, and on the other side of them, waiting 

to pass, the cab in which was seated ; and all my 

thoughts were centred in calculating that the distance was 
just sufficient to get up the impetus necessary for the 
desperate purpose I had in my mind. I seized the two 
ball tickets in my teeth, and hurled my machine along at 
a pace never before reached by anyone, amateur or pro- 
fessional. When within a hundred yards of the obstruction 
I seized the handles in such a vice-like grasp that the 
impress of my fingers remains on them to this day, and 
springing up from the treadles, whilst at the same time I 
gripped the forks with my knees as if on horseback. 
I lifted the machine into the air with me. Seventy yards 
further on I struck the road with both wheels at once, and 
rebounding, as I had expected, I topped the omnibuses, and 
guiding the bicycle directly over the cab as I flew through 
the air, at the right moment I let go the two tickets, which 
fluttered gently into the hands of the ladies. Canting my 
wheel on one side, I turned down a quiet street, and by dint 
of putting on the brake and back-treadling I moderated 
the speed of my serial flight, and regaining terra firma not 
half a mile from the spot where I last left it, I rode gently 
home. Arrived there, I found that it only wanted four 
hours to the commencement of the ball, so I had to hurry 
up and begin dressing. On account of the excessive s|)eed 
at which I was travelling whilst in the air, I was of course 
invisible to any but the eye of love, consequently the old 
lady received the cards in the light of a manifestation from 
the spirits, and took her daughter to the ball. Needless to 

say, I danced every dance with that evening, but I 

did not marry her, because I belong to the West District, 
and consequently have not yet caught the contagion. 

DiSTRicms. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
Wanted, a convertible " Rudge " Sociable in good order. 
Apply to A. L. Potter, Carisbrooke, Beddington, Surrey. 

CHANGES OF ADDRESS. 
F. M. Williams, 5, Church Road, WestDray ton, Middlesex. 
H. C. Clifton, 3, Alpha Road, Regent's Park. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 5 



TERPSICHOREAN. 
The third of the South East District Annual Dances 
came oflF on Wednesday, 6th December, and found me 
once more in attendance at the Croydon Town Hall. I 
don't know why, but somehow or other, however strong may 
have been my resolutions to the contrary, I always end by 
taking that first step towards doing my duty in the capacity 
of Steward, though why I should have been selected for 
that office goodness (and, perhaps, myD. C.) only knows. 

Anyhow, here we are once more. I am under the wing 
of a weaker brother and his better-half, and our iBy draws 
up at the door punctually to the stroke of half-post seven. 
We are the first arrivals ; but no, her^ is our worthy District 
Captain sitting amid the desolation of the cloak room, like 
Marius among the ruins of Carthage. The first few file 
into the hall just as the last tinned tack has been driven 
home by the hammer, led by the Zulu in full " war paint." 
'Tis eight o'clock, and yet I seem to miss two or three well- 
known faces. Where was that I heard that our Captain 
would grace the occasion with his august presence? but 
still " he Cometh not" Was it " he " or " she said ? " "I 
looked but could not see " my friend the presiding genius 
of Essex byways, the Mark-Tapleyan cheerfulness of whose 
face has often revived my drooping spirits. Where is the 
hero of the Bath Koad and Lawn Tennis tournament ? or 
his "Proximo accessit?" Was it true that they had 
already begun to train for fresh laurels awaiting them in 
the New Year? There was a darkly-whispered rumour 
that one well-known member who was expected was 
suffering from the effects of a surfeit of pastry, but I scorn 
to repeat such scandal. It was ten minutes or so past 
eight when our D.C. approached the platform where the 
band was discordantly tuning up, and the ball is opened 
with an extra waltz. 

To those of a contemplative turn of mind, a dance affords 
excellent opi)ortunity. I stood in a quiet comer and 
watched the couples as they passed on their planetary way, 
each pair revolving on their own axis, yet round a common 
though imaginary centre. There went by the familiar 
form of the elder Tliorn, guiding his fair partner through 
the crowd of dancers with the same skill as of yore he 
would drive his iron steed rouDd the cinder-clad path of 
LiUie or Stamford Bridge, though not then with that un- 
troubled mien. And then glided by, as Mercury " on wingM 
feet," an ex-Secretary from the North- West, meteor-like, 
among the less speedy orbs. But here I was buttonholed 
by our D.C.'s Substitute, who, with the Editor, turned my 
attention to matters of sterner import— as to who was to 
be the new Captain ? and wherewithal were we to manu- 
facture a new Editor ? to both of which questions an answer 
did not readily suggest itself. 

But I am straying from my subject. Among the ladies 
I noticed many familiar faces, and not a few fresh ones. 
May we hope that those of our fair visitors who were not 



present for the first time enjoyed themselves as much as on 
former occasions, and that those who had not graced our 
dance with their presence before will do so again another 
year. My descriptive powers quite fail me when I would 
describe the dresses. Imagine a background of white, 
tinged here and there with pale pink and blue, relieved by 
an occasional black, and lit up with a sprinkling of orange, 
red, and terra cotta. I pass with a sigh (believe' me, not of 
satisfaction but regret) from the airy regions of the ball- 
room to the less sentimental pleasures of tlie supper table. 
Here the refreshments were, as last year, well provided by 
Mrs. Pusey, and our friend the ubiquitous waiter simply 
surpassed himself in his readiness to see our wants supplied. 
If the daintier dishes were only half as good as was a certain 
sirloin of beef and bottled beer the supper must be voted to 
have been first-rate. 

I did not count myself, but have heard officially that 
there were about twenty-six in all fewer than last year, but 
I am sure I was never at a dance — and I have been to a 
good many in my *younger days — where there were fewer 
wallflowers among the ladies, or few men hanging about the 
doors. Every man must be considered to have done Ids 
duty, and the ladies — cela va sans dire. Even the Napo- 
leonic features of him on whom fell the brunt of the work, 
and who brought it to a most successful issue, relaxed into 
a smile as he gazed on the scene. It was past two before 
the strains of the band died away. The last adieux were 
exchanged, and our third S.R Dance was consigned to the 
records of the past. Atoycn^s. 



A THREE* DAYS' TOUR. 

October 1882 has proved, as everyone knows, a signal 
failure so far as the weather was concerned, and consequently 
I was prevented from taking my last short tour of the year 
until the last day of that month, when it became more 
settled. 

It was a fine bright morning when Elgood called for me, 
and we made a start in excellent spirits with the intention 
of reaching some town in North Essex that night. The 
roads were, as we expected, made heavy with mud, but the 
clear and invigorating air and blue sky ab6ve made amends 
to a great extent for this evil below. Bumping along the 
Finchley road we soon reached Barnet and Potter s Bar ; 
here we took the right-hand turning, and were soon riding 
along those lovely wooded lanes to Clieshunt which have 
been the admiration of so many N. W. men during the past 
season. Passing Cheshunt House, we were not long in 
striking the main Hertford road, which we found so heavy 
and bad that in spite of all our endeavours it was as much 
as we could do to drive our wheels through the sandy mud 
and shingle. At last we got clear of it, and, passing through 
Hoddesdon, we continued a mile or two onwards, and then, 
turning to the right, worked along at a ^ood pace until we 



Digitized by 



6 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



descended a hill, and over a level crossing, into the quiet 
old-fashioned town of Stanstead Abbots. I believe it has 
for long been a problem which none could satisfactorily 
solve, as to how riders in the W. and N.W. can find their 
way across country into Essex, therefore it gives me 
pleasure in recommending the above-mentioned route, 
which in summer time will be found a good one, both 
as regards the surface of the roads and the scenery. 
We had to walk up a steep hill out of the town, and then 
a pleasant ride of a mile or so brought us in sight of Roydon, 
but between us and that village the river Stort had lately 
overflown its banks, and left the fields on either side and 
about one hundred yards of the road covered with water. 
Sitting well back, we made a dash through the muddy water, 
and soon found that our back wheels were completely sub- 
merged, but by carefully steering for the centre of the road 
we both succeeded in arriving on dry land again in safety. 
At Eoydon we partook of light refreshments at an inn, and 
were shown by the landlady a splendid specimen of a death's- 
head moth, which she had caught some weeks before. It 
measured at least four inches across from the extremity of 
orie wing to the extremity of the other ; it had been en- 
trapped by the tempting smell of beer, and had attempted 
to drown itself in that enervating drink, when it was rescued 
and saved from destruction by the hands of the landlady. 
The next few miles on to Harlow were hilly and winding. 
Here we stopped for lunch at the "George" (B.T.C.), and 
did not leave again until the middle of the aftenioon. The 
country on through Sheering is undulating and fairly pretty. 
At Hatfield Broad Oak there is a fine old church, which 
had once been a Benedictine Priory, which still retains 
signs of its former beauty. From here to Dunmow the road 
was fairly level and good, but the country uninteresting. 
It now became dark and cloudy, so, lighting up our lamps, 
we faced the last nine miles to Braintree in the dark, and 
so excessively dark was it that, if my lamp had failed to 
perform its duties, as Elgood's did, we should have had no 
little diflficulty in proceeding on our way in safety. Big 
drops of rain threatened to give us a wetting more than 
once, but luckily it held over, and we hailed the lights of 
Braintree with the glad hearts which only 'cyclists feel after 
a hard day's journey. We put up for the night at a com- 
fortable Hotel, the "George," a B.T.C. house. In the 
coffee-room we made the acquaintance of its only other 
occupier, a young retired oflBcer, whose company we much 
enjoyed. After a walk round the town, which did not 
appear to possess any especial attraction, we returned to 
the hotel, and in the company of our new friend spent a 
most enjoyable musical evening. 

Next day, although windy, favoured us by being fine ; 
so, saying adieu to our friend, we were soon riding up the 
long liill out of Braintree. A few miles of undulating road 
led us to Halstead, a pleasant, clean-looking town, situated 
on the side of a hill which took all our strength to sur- 



mount. On to Sudbury, our next destination, the roads 
were undulating, and the scenery not particularly inviting. 
There is a long and somewhat steep hill leading down into. 
Sudbury, which town contains several very interesting 
churches. St. Gregory's, in particular, is of the greatest 
interest. It was also at this town that the renowned 
painter Gainsborough was born, and spent his early days 
in practising his art. A ride of some three miles took us 
on to Long Melford, a small town teeming with architec- 
tural and antiquarian interest. The church here is visited 
by people from all parts, and is a splendid building. 
Melford Hall, also, an Elizabethan structure, has an 
interesting history of its own. The next thirteen miles on 
to Bury St. Edmunds we rode at a quick rate, having the 
wind at our backs (for once), and no objects to visit on the 
road. After lunch at this ancient and to all appearance 
thriving town, we had a look at the Abbey Gate, built in 
the fourteenth century, which is especially worthy of notice, 
and contains many architectural details that deserve careful 
attention. The beautiful Norman tower near to St. James's 
Church is a splendid example of that period ; and as we 
gazed upon its simple but pleasing ornamentation, we 
marvelled how such a large and substantial tower could 
have been formed with the axe, and not the chisel. We 
also had a look into St. James's and St. Mary's Churches, 
both old and interesting piles. 

Leaving Bury early in the afternoon, we took the road to 
Newmarket, which we found in places very soft and muddy, 
while there were several long hills to surmount, and from 
Eeutford there was an almost continuous rise for three miles 
until the top of the hill leading into Newmarket waa reached. 
The wind also blew against us, and momentarily increased in 
strength, until it was with difiiculty that we were able to 
ride down hill. Having heard of excessive charges at all 
the hotels in Newmarket, and there not being a B.T.C. house 
there, we were determined, if possible, to push on to Roystou, 
although it had now become dark and the wind blew quite 
a gale. We managed to mount under the shade of some 
trees, and with all our strength to ride some hundred yards 
alongside the bleak exposed race-course, but suddenly an 
extra powerful gust caught us, and we both at the same 
moment were literally blown across the road, and were just 
able to scramble off as our machines ran on to the grass. 
We then held a council of war, and actually had the pre- 
sumption to try and strike a light, but of course failed, so, 
turning our machines towards Newmarket, were soon riding 
through that town to the railway station, where we took 
train to Royston, which town, after much dawdling, we 
reached in the evening, and put up at an old-fashioned inn 
called the "Crown," one of the numerous comfortable B.T.C. 
houses. Oh, how the signboard creaked and the wind howled 
through the narrow streets I how the window did rattle in 
a dreary, restless manner, thus putting dismal thoughts 
into one's sleepy head, as one vainly tries to smother all 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



7 



outward noise by bur3ring one's head under the clothes. 
But sleep came at last— calm, gentle sleep, whose soundness 
is the reward of a bicyclist for a good day's ride. In spite 
of the previous night's wind we found the weather on 
rising clear and fine, but no sooner had we started than we 
discovered to our annoyance that our enemy the wind was 
blowing steadily against us. There were several long hills 
to mount before reaching Buntingford, from which place the 
road was rather hilly on through Puckeridge and Ware to 
Hertford. At the latter place we had lunch, and again 
faced the wind for the remaining twenty miles home. Thus 
ended a very pleasant three days' tour, which, if it had not 
been for the wind, would have been still more enjoyable. 
In conclusion, we can thoroughly recommend the roads we 
passed over in Essex and Suffolk, and should advise all who 
have not already done so to take the first opportunity of 
visiting Bury St. Edmunds. W. T. H. 



RAVINGS OF A CYCLOMANIAC.~No. XII. 

I'm really very sorry to have to trouble your readers in 
this way once again, Mr. Editor, but you see it's the only 
outlet I have to my pent-up feelings. I can't persuade 
any of my friends to come and stay with me. I believe 
they think I'm dangerous. When these harmless attacks 
come on, and I've no one to victimize viva voce, I have to 
put my ravings down on paper, and no one except a fellow- 
sufferer like yourself and your readers can imagine what 
relief such a proceeding affords. The greatness of, and I 
might almost say the necessity for, such a relief reminds 
me of a certain doctor's criticism on a badly prepared and 
worse delivered speech : " Wliat a relief it must be to 
So-and-So to throw off so much half-digested matter, yet 
what agony he seems to suffer in the process." 

A letter from a friend has done the mischief. He writes : 
" A few weeks ago I took a bicycle by train (for which he 
ought to be ashamed of himself^but I believe it was so 
broken he couldn't have ridden), and lo ! instead of draw- 
ing up a mass of legal documents with mysterious refer- 
ences to ' fire, shipwreck, the act of Ood, and the Queen's 
enemies,' they sold me (at a great price) a neat little ticket 
with 'Bicycle' printed on it and correctly spelt '\ This 
passage in my friend's letter has sent my powerful memory 
back into the fading distance of the past> and I see an 
urchin on the Euston platform brandishing a 42-inch 
bicycle, asserting to a cloud of porters grouped picturesquely 
around him the utter foolishness, not to say wickedness, of 
expecting his bicycle (red, black and gold) to travel in an 
ordinary luggage van already three quarters full of boxes 
and perambulators. In that golden age bicycles went as 
personal luggage, and why they should not do so now is 
more than this undermined brain can discover. I can see 
that urchin talking to a silver-mounted guard (painted 
black, and chained to a whistle), who obsequiously opens a 
special luggage compartment, wherein the bicycle is care- 



fully packed, surrounded by specially chosen luggage, and 
at every station at which the express stopped, that guard 
(silver mounts, black paint, whistle and all) goes to that 
luggage compartment, unlocks it, and then reports to the 
urchin, who with anxious face looks out of a neighbouring 
carriage window, that "the wheelossypeed is all right." 
Ah, me ! them was timea I remember how the porters all 
stood on one side in awe to let the rightful owner (ake the 
" thing " out when it got to its destination, and how they 
all followed to the station yard to see the urchin ride off 
on it after the fly in which he put his luggage. In these 
degenerate days you'd probably hear some such remark as 
" Now, then, guv'nor, chuck yer jigger in 'ere— third- 
class smoking forrad." Tempora mutantur, and we are 
mutantur'd in illis. Moral — ^Don't go meddling with 
those na-a-sty trains. 

Harrison, Kensington Works, Kensington Street, Bir- 
mingham, has brought out a new stop-bell, I see, called 
the " King of the Stop-bells." I do not know the price, 
nor can I give an opinion as to its merits^ for mine hasn't 
come yet. 

The fashion at present seems to be to cut records, and I 
am seriously thinking of going into strict training during 
this Christmas to cut a record. There are but few records 
left for anyone to try and cut with any chance of success. 
I propose cutting two records at once, and thus annihila- 
ting ornithological twins with a single geological specimen. 
First of all I am thinking of devouring the greatest amount 
of plum pudding and number of mince pies in the shortest 
time, and then, when thus properly trained, mounting and 
cutting the record for a twenty-four hours $low race, or 
the shortest distance in twenty-four hours without a dis- 
mount. The roads are in splendid condition for a race of 
this sort. It takes a Gortis to win the fast races^ but it 
will require a Tortis to come in last in the slow. 

Something's happened ! For the first time for years I 
know what it is to be free from cyclomania. I can think 
of nothing more to rave about. It may be only temporary 
relief. Any way, I may thank the Gazette for this cure. 
I feel thankful ; and so, I am sure, do my fellow- victims 
that they won't have to wade through any more overflow- 
ings from the loosened tiles of " Galley Bell." 

ECHOES. 

E. T. S. and T. R S. are not the same individual, though 

the similarity of their initials might lead members to give 

the one credit for the other's talents. 

• «•*•• 

" A Hundred Thousand Pounds " is, I am informed, the 

title of the piece selected by the Committee of the L.B.C.D.S. 

for representation next February. To make the programme 

still more enjoyable, a farce will probably be played as well. 

Zulu tells me — That the Dramatic is very strong this 
season in cast/' and ought to be a great success. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



8 



That the title is not a thnist at the finances of the Club. 
*••«•• 

That he would advise an early application for stalls 
should a good seat be wanted. 

That the five stalls for a guinea is a special facility for 
the married men. 

♦ • ♦ ' ♦ • • 
MiLLAB.— Dec 9, at 6, Heathfield GardeoB, Hampetead Heath, 

N.W., the wife of Henry Edward Millar, of a son. 

The S.E. Ball was this year as enjoyable as ever — ^good 
dancers, a good floor, a good supper, and plenty of room. 
What more could members wish for ? 

As might have been expected, H. G. A. Brown was inde- 
fatigable, and seemed to be always in the right pkce at the 
right moment 

Who was the belle of the Ball ? Well, I imagine it would 
have taken a long while to pick out tfte one amongst such a 
large number, all anp<arently with equal claims to the title ; 
at any rate, I could not find time to decide. 

♦ •«••* 

Tlie " Qreyhound Hotel " opened its hospitable arms to 
four or five members of other Districts, but it could not 
understand how anyone could want tea and toast in his 
bedroom. 

The princinal feature of the Ball was the tasteful way in 
which the Jiall had been decorated with flowers and ever- 
greens. 

♦ « « « « • . 

Arthur Herbert is enjoying fine weather at Mentone, 
where he has been ordered by his doctor. I hope we shall 
see him back in time for the opening run, with his health 
completely restored. 

I expect we shall have some exciting elections at the 
next General Meeting. I can imagine handbills being dis- 
tributed by enthusiastic members : " Vote for A , the 

Universal Keformer "Plump for B , the Financier who 

scorns five shilling calls " C is the Treasurer who does 

not ask for subscriptions "Rally round D for Secretary 

and free Race meeting tickets. Five-guinea Prizes, and no 
corruption;" "Rambler for Editor, and lots of tours," 
etc., etc. Rambler. 

[The demands upon our space have again been so large that we are 
reluctantly obliged to postpone to the next issue the continuation 
of Mr. G. F. Ck>bb*s graphic letters on Switzerland.] 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — I desire to express my regret to the members of 
the South East District that, as one of their representatives 
oiifthe Committee, I have been unable to attend the recent 
Committee meetings owing to illness, and as I shall probably 
not return to England for some months I feel it my duty 
to retire in favour of some other member who can give the 
necessary attention to their interests and to the general 
business of the Club. I shall, therefore, not offer myself for 
re-election in January. — Yours faithfully, 

Arthur Herbert. 

Hotel Camons, Mentone, Alpes Maritimes, France, 
Dec. 13th, 1882. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — I beg to enclose a card of the Chipton Lacrosse 
Club fixtures for this season, which I shall be glad if you 
can find room for in the next Gazette. 

Our Club is largely composed of members of the 
L.B.C. (to wit, K H. Barrett, A. Berwick, T. Child, 
T. Godlee, F. Jolly, F. N. Large, A. Murray, R. Newman, 
C. Newman, Gerard Smith, etc.), and we shall be glad to 
welcome to our practice games any other L.B.C. men who 
may like to try their hands at Lacrosse. Our ground is 
easily reached by train from Liverpool Street Station to 
St. James Street, Walthamstow. — Yours truly, 

Enfield, Dec. 13, 1882. A. C. Smith, Hon. Sec 

Oat«*1883. Clab. Orcmod. 
January 6 Practice WalthaniBtow, 

>f •••• n • If 



„ ......... ,« 

February 8 Kensington Willeeden Jnnction. 

„ 10 Leys Walthamstow. 

„ 17 .. ...... Dulwich Dulieich. 

„ 24 Woodford Woodford. 

March 8 Cambridge University Walthamstow. 

„ 10 Leys Cambridge. 

„ 17 London Walthamstow. 

„ 24 Practice „ 

If 81 „ 19 



Musical Bicyclists. — Last night a novel experiment in 
bell-ringing took place in the City. The riders of bicycles 
have alarm bells fixed to their machines, the notes of which 
differ occasionally one from the other. This gave rise to a 
suggestion by a bicyclist that a couple of octaves should be 
provided, the performers having one or two bells affixed to 
their machines. The suggestion was carried out, the result 
being that the octaves met by the Mansion House, and 
started ofiF up Cheapside, ringing out "The Bells." This 
was continued until reaching St. Paul's Churchyard, when 
the musicians changed the theme, and gave the " Blue Bells 
of Scotland," " Auld Lang Syne," and " Home, sweet home," 
as they ran down Cannon Street, up Union and King Streets, 
and round the back of the Bank of England. After a rest 
of ten minutes, the musical bicyclists had another spin 
through the City, playing " Rule Britannia," the " March 
of the Men of Harlech," and " God save the Queen." The 
whole of the music was creditably performed. — Daily 
Chronicle, Dec. 2^h, 1882. 



Corrigenda. — On page 235, in the fourth line of our 
President's speech proi)osing "The Queen," the word 
"unlikely" should be "likely." 



ANSWER TO CORRESPONDENT. 
The Hon. Ion Keitii-Falconer. — We much regret the 
stupid mistake in our last issue. We were very busy at 
the time, and fear t^e did not give as much attention to the 
Gazette as we ought to have done. 



NOTICE TO OOERESPONDENTS. 
All contributioxiB must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.G.,'* and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and must be received not later than Tues^lay, the 6th Feb., 
at 6 p.m. 

Printed for the PropriS^rs by Darling &, Son, at the Minervd Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.G.— January 4, 1888. 



Digitized by 





An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 2.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU riirhts reserved.] 



February 8, 1883. 



The Anntiftl General Meeting^ 

Dramatic Society 

Bicycle Union 

A Bank Holiday Bide 

AnalyBis of Handicaps 

The Mentor 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



.... 

.10, 11 

.... 10 

.... 11 

.... 12 

.... 18 



Ashridge Park, etc 

Exchange List 

Echoes 

Correspondence 

Answ^ to Correspondent 
Notice to Correspondents.. 



PAGE 

.. 14 

.. 14 

.. 14 

.. 15 

.. 16 

.. 16 



Tke neat Gazette mil be published on Thursday, the 
1st proa. Copy should be sent in on or b^ore 
mh inst. 

THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING. 

We have again to plead for the indulgence of our readers, 
for we have again been disappointed in our Keporter, as we 
were at the Annual Dinner last Norember. 

The General Meeting was held at the " London Tavern " 
on the 31st ultimo, at 6.30 p.m., and was not largely 
attended. T. E. Scrutton was requested to take the chair. 

It was proposed by H. R. Reynolds, Jun., and seconded 
by Harold Smith, ''That the Committee's Report be 
adopted." 

B. G. Francis moved, and The O'Reillt seconded, 
That the balance sheet be adopted ; " but an amendment 
proi)osed by A. Henry and seconded by F. M. Williams 
was carried, " That the heading of the accounts should be, 
' The Cash Account of the Treasurer with the L.B.C. 
ending 31st December, 1882.' " 

W. A. Smith and H. Middleton having been appointed 
scmtineers, the elections were proceeded with, with the 
following results : — 



President 
Captain 
Hon, See. . 
Treasurer , 
Editor .. 
Sub-Editor 



The Hon. loK EIeith-Faloovib. 
Abhlet Babbett. 
E. S. Pbiob. 
R. B. Hough. 

T. E. SCBUTTOK. 

A. Lloyd. 



N,S. D,C. Thko. Godlkb. 

N.W. „ P. Dalton. 

TT. „ D. T. Nops. 

8.W. „ R. M. Gbugokn. 

S,B. „ R. G. Fbancis. 

N.E, Committeemen ... F. Jollt. 

E. H. Babbktt. 
KW. „ ... 0. Nbwmak. 

W. J. Williams. 
W. „ ... F. M. Williams. 

O. Thobn. 

8.W. „ ... A. E. Bucklbb. 

G. P. Coleman. 
S,B, „ ... H. G. A. Bbown. 

G. F. Beck. 

It was then proposed by W. A. Smith and seconded by 
A. L. Radford :— 

" That the Club award a certain nnmber of Medals (such number 
to be hereafter decided upon) to such members of the L.B.C. who, on 
the day of the Bath Trial, shaU complete the 100 miles from Bath to 
Hounslow on Tricycles within twelve hours. The Medals to be similar 
to those given for the District Attendance Prizes, but of gold instead 
of silver, and suitably engraved." 

To which an amendment was proposed by T. E. Scrutton, 
seconded by Ashlby Barrett, and carried : — 

*<That the question of a Tricycle Road Trial, together with the 
general question of the position of tricydists in the Club, and of any 
changes in Club organisation necessary to meet the growth of tricycling, 
be referred to the Committee to report on to a Special General Meeting, 
to be held within three months or as soon after as possible.'' 

H. R. Reynolds proposed and J. G. Whatton seconded \~ 

That the Annual Race Meeting of the L.B.C. for 1883 be held at 
the Crystal Palace." 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



After some discussion the following amendment, proposed 
by the Captain and seconded by Koch, was carried : — 

" That, in the opinion of this meeting, it is desirable to hold onr next 
annual Race Meeting at the Crystal Palace, in the event of the Com- 
mittee being able to dispose satisfactorily of the obligations that the 
Clitb has incurred with the L.A.C.'* 

T. E. ScRUTTON postponed to the Special General Meeting 
the next proposition on the Agenda Paper, and then 
proposed that there should be an entrance fee of 5s. for 
the Bath Trial. This was lost. 

W. J. Williams also postponed his resolution to the 
Special General Meeting. 

Thbo. Godleb proposed, and F. M. Williams seconded, 
** That a Sub-Editor be appointed for the ensuing year, and 
that he be a member of the Committee ' ex-officio.* " This 
was carried, as was also Godlee's proposal that Arthur Lloyd 
be elected Sub^Editor for the ensuing year. 

Theo. Godleb then, in well-chosen words, suggested to 
the meeting that it would be very wrong for it to dissolve 
without tendering to T. E. Scrutton its very hearty thanks 
for the able way in which he had guided the Club during 
his captaincy, and amidst much prolonged and vociferous 
cheering a vote of thanks to him was carried — a vote which 
we imagine has rarely been more deserved than by our 
talented and good tempered ex-Captain. 



DRAMATIC SOCIETY. 

Members no doubt have taken notice that the day of our 
performance has been altered to Tuesday, February 20th, 
instead of the previous Saturday. The reason will be fully 
seen on perusal of the following letter received from the 
German AthensBum : — 

German Athenaeum, 98, Mortimer Street. 

January 22nd, 1883. 

Bear Sir, — ^The members of this society intending to give a musical 
and dramatic entertainment in aid of the funds raised on behalf of their 
terribly afflicted countrymen in the Rhinehmds, they have for that pur- 
pose hired St. George's Hall for Tuesday, February 20th. His Royal 
Highness the Prince of Wales and other members of the Royal Family 
have promised to honour the society with their presence if the entertain- 
ment could be given on Saturday, February 17th, this being the only 
evening in February and March at HH.H.'s disposal. Having been in- 
formed by the manager of St. George's Hall that you have retained it 
for that evening, I now appeal to you whether you could possibly sub- 
stitute the 20th for the 17th, and thus ensure the powerful support of 
the Royal Family for the success of this urgent and charitable under- 
taking. I need scarcely add that any expenses caused by this change 
would be gladly paid by this society. If you will kindly communicate 
to me your city address, I shall take the liberty of calling upon you at 
any time you may name ; and as our circulars have to be issued within 
the next few days, and as H.R.H. expects our reply without delay, I 
shall feel greatly obliged if you will let me know your decision as soon 
as ever possible. — Trusting that it may be a favourable one, I am, dear 
sir, yours faithfuUy, E. Mstkbstein, Hon. Sec. 

Under the circumstances we could not but accede to 
their request. 

With this Gazette members will find a notice, and it is 



hoped that a good many will apply for tickets soon, that is 
if they want good seats, as we are rapidly filling up the hall. 

The cast is a very good one,, and, subject to correction, 
will be as follows : — 

"WITHERED LEAVES." 

Sir CoNTERS CoNTEBB A. E. Buckler. 

Tom CoNYEBa R. G. Francis. 

Arthdb MiDDijrroK A. Barker. 

Cecil Vane E. WiUcins. 

"ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS." 

Gerald Goodwin- R. M. Gruggen. 

Major Blackshaw E. T. Sachs. 

Sib R. Waters Ashley Barrett. 

Ohabker A. E. Buckler. 

Job Barlow H. Naylor. 

Penktthornb F. W. Morris. 

Pyepinch A. F. White. 

Mr. Fldjleb CO. Fitch. 

Gibbiks — Henry. 

Asnsted by Misses Bristowe and Roache. 

The L.B.C. O.S. will give a selection of music during the 
interval. 

Evening dress is requested but not compulsor}^ and to 
save disappointment it is as well to state that no one 
except the actors will be allowed behind the scenes. 

Alfred Barker, Hon. Sec. 

BICYCLE UNION. 
RiPOBT OF Executive Meetings held at the Offices, 
17, Ibonmohobb Lane, up to 9th Januabt, 1888. 

The Executive having been informed that it was proposed 
to bring in a Bill for Scotland which would have the effect 
of allowing each borough to frame its own bye-laws with 
reference to bicycles and tricycles, communicated with the 
authorities on the subject, and are glad to be able to report 
that, at a meeting of the Committee appointed to consider 
this Bill, the motion of the Provost of Dumfries for the 
insertion of a general clause," founded on that recom- 
mended by the Union, was unanimously adopted. The 
Executive thereupon passed the following resolution : — 

That the Executive of the Bicycle Union record with pleasure their 
thanks to the Provost of Dumfries for his valuable assistance in con- 
nection with recent proposed legislation in Scotland, having reference 
to bicycles and tricycles. 

The Executive have under consideration the action of 
the Corporation of Liverpool, which is about to apply for 
further powers with reference to bicycles and tricycles. 

Resolved : — 

That J. AUan of Uppingham, and F. Wright of Oakham, having 
ridden for a money prize at the sports given by^ the Loyal Rutland 
Lodge of Oddfellows at Oakham on the I2th September, 1882, be and 
are hereby declared professionals. 

From a return made by Mr. G. P. Coleman, the Official 
Handicapper for the Home Counties and the South, it 
appears that during the past year he has been called upon 
to frame 79 handicaps. 

The Executive have been requested to take action 
against a ^bus driver for having wilfully run into a tricycle, 
but as the case appeared to be one of ordinary assault, not 
involving any disputed point of law, or with any special 
circumstances, the Executive felt they could not depart 
from their invariable practice and take up the case. 

Wm. Pyb-Enqlish, Hon. Sec. 

Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



11 



NOTICE. 

Wanted, a Room for Committee Meetings. Any member 
knowing of a room in the City suitable for this purpose is 
requested to at once communicate with me. The rental 
offered is £5 per annum, and the room would be required 
on about fifteen evenings in the year. — E. S. Price, 
"Homelea," Greenhill, Hampstead. 

LONDON BICYCLE CLUB DRAMATIC SOCIETY. 
It has been decided, in addition to Byron's comedy of 
" One Hundred Thousand Pounds/' to play the amusing 
comedietta entitled " Withered Leaves," which will precede 
the comedy and commence at 7.30 p.m. As the seats are 
rapidly filling, members desirous of securing good places are 
requested to apply as early as possible to R. M. Gruggen, 
Lynton Villa, Richmond, S.W. We would again call tlie 
attention of members to the unavoidable change in the date 
of the performance from Saturday, 17th, to the following 
Tuesday, 20th February. 

A BANK HOLIDAY RIDE. 
On August 5t]i three members of the L.B.C. met at 
Kingston station, J. W. Alison, C. Taylor, and A. H. Koch. 
It was nearly five o'clock before we left Kingston for Ripley. 
We found the " Anchor " full of Beanfeasters, so went on to 
Guildford and had tea at the B.T.C. house there. We left a 
little before eight, taking over the Hog's Back to Farnham* 
We lighted up just outside the town, so rode straight 
through to Alton, putting up at the " Swan." We met three 
members of the Wanderers B.C., and spent a very pleasant 
evening with them. The next morning was lovely, the 
sun shone brightly, the roads were perfect, and the wind 
behind. After breakfast we left for Farehara. The road 
the whole way from Alton down Filmer Hill, through West 
Meon, to Wickham, was far better than most racing paths, 
so good that it nearly equalled a billiard table for surface ; 
from Wickham to Fareham it was more bumpy and hilly. 
At Fareham we halted at the " Red Lion ; " after borrowing 
towels we went for a swim in the sea. A boat, such as it 
was, was obtained, and we rowed ourselves some little way 
so as not to bathe too much in public. All went well with 
us, except that the boat leaked a good deal, until the N.G. 
wanted to get back into the boat; his struggles were 
elephantine but fruitless, so Taylor and I had to haul him 
in by force ; he arrived safely on board after some trouble, 
on the top of a wave that quite wetted our clothes and 
nearly swamped us ; however, we soon dried in the wind and 
sun. On our safe arrival at our point of departure I asked the 
boat owner " How much?" to which he replied "Threepence." 
I paid, and we all retired. This is the cheapest boating 
excursion I ever had. It is as well to note we had the 
boat in use for an hour and a half. After lunch we all felt 
very sleepy, so did not resume our journey till four o'clock, 
when we went through Litchfield to Netley Abbey. We 



found the gate of the Abbey closed, so we climbed over 
.and walked all through the grounds. The ruins are 
very grand and well worth a visit. There is no good 
distant view to be got of them, as they are completely 
hidden by trees. We crossed by the steam ferry to South- 
ampton, but did not stop, as we wished to get to Winchester 
before dark if possible. We dismounted at St. Cross and 
walked through the grounds, but it was too late to see the 
inside of the church. Arriving at Winchester, we put up 
at the " White Swan." The landlady had taken something 
that was a little too strong for her nerves ; she talked to us 
and at us nearly all the evening ; so persistent was she 
that she followed us up stairs to bed and delivered each of 
us a lecture on sheets until we put her out of the room. 
She was still heard in the passage and no doubt continued 
it to her old man, so what time he got any sleep I cannot 
say. The next morning was fine but cloudy, so we 
start^ for Basingstoke. Close to Popham we met a lot 
of artillery marching down to Southampton. There 
were six guns and some baggage-waggons. Although the 
men had only come nine wiles, they looked as if they had 
had quite enough of the dust. We were obliged to dismount 
to let them pass, but on resuming our journey we found tliey 
had quite spoiled the roads by hacking up the surface. After 
leaving Basingstoke we met another Battery close to the 
canal bridge ; they had come from Aldershot that morning ; 
they looked much better than the former lot. At Hook we 
were overtaken by a regular cad on castors ; he wanted to 
join us, but we objected, the first remark he made being 
quite enough for us : " 'Ot, ai*nt it ?" We saw him with 
his head in a pewter pot at Hartley Row, so he troubled us 
no more. Just before reaching the latter place I had a 
grand pig hunt. They (two pigs) would not face the 
bicycle, in spite of two boys administering copious whacks, 
but turned and fled ; so, seeing them go off, I went in chase, 
giving them a fine gallop of half a mile. I then left them 
exhausted at the side of the road. Taylor and Alison could 
not go the pace for laughing. Our halt for lunch was at 
the " White Hart," Blackwater, soon after which we parted 
company. Alison and Taylor went together to Chertsey, 
where they had tea ; Alison then found the rim of his hind 
wheel was broken, but he managed to ride as far as Acton, 
where he left his machine, doing the rest of his journey by 
train. Taylor arrived safely at Kensington without adven- 
ture. After leaving the others in York Town I went on to 
Frimley, then over the Ridges past Henly Park to Worples- 
don. The view from the Ridges was perfect and very 
extensive — all the Woking country was at your feet, witn 
blue hills in the distance, and the heather being in full 
bloom added a still greater beauty to the scene. I can't 
say much/or the road, as it is only a sand-track, but is just 
rideable. * Anyone fond of pottering should try this part of 
the county of Surrey — it is well worth a visit. After leaving 
Worplesdon I made for Woking— then to Ripley. I went 
for a swim in the Way, returning to town early the next 



mornmg. Total distance about 170 miles. 



A. H. Koch. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ANALYSIS OF HANDICAPS, 
Framed by G. P. Coleman, L.B.C., Official Handicapper Bicycle Union, in 1882. 



No. 



Club or Place. 



Entries. 


Date, 1882. 


Dist 


Time. 
Min. Sec. 


'Winner. 
Yards. 


24 






1 


Q 

U 


68* 


110 


21 


it 


10 


8 


Q 




Scratch 


12 


it 




5 


1 ft 




Scratch 


16 


a 


10 


1 


o 




150 


13 


a 




5 


17 
If 


^A 


400 


S3 


ti 


in 


1 





RAA 


100 


29 


it 




3 


Q 


4? 


850 


20 


a 


in 


6 


1 K 


28* 


490 


64 


n 


99 

Am 


1 


Q 
O 


1/x 


80 


19 


it 


29 


8 


10 


29 1 


Scratch 


16 


ii 


9Q 


1 




OS* 


45 


10 


n 


29 


1 


7 


192 


40 


27 


May 


6 


1 


2 


*4 


80 


40 


it 


6 


1 


8 


20} 


ISO 


19 


it 


6 


3 


10 


33t 


120 


45 


If 


OK 


1 


3 


261 


80 


22 


»» 


9Q 




2 


58| 


75 


20 


tf 


9Q 


6 


16 


16{ 


420 


26 


t1 


90 


1 


3 




75 


22 


it 


9Q 


3 


9 


30 


Scratch 


20 


tt 


90 


1 


8 




90 


18 


ii 


90 


8 


9 


55 


150 


9 


it 


90 


1 


3 


67i 


85 


15 


ii 


90 


2 


No time 


50 


14 


It 


29 


3 


10 


48 


OAA 


10 


tt 


90 


5 


17 


27 


360 


19 


« 

o 


1 


2 


59f 


70 


67 


ti 


Q 
O 


1 


2 


41 


110 


18 


ii 


7 
/ 


1 


2 


412 


Scratch 


26 


tf 


1 A 


1 


3 


831 


10 


67 


ft 


1A 

J V 


1 


n 


ou. 


65 


86 


a 


1 A 


1 


3 


15 


Scratch 


47 


ii 


1 7 
if 


1 


2 


47i 


95 


19 


it 


28 


2 


7 


26* 


Scratch 


88 


Jnly 


1 


1 


3 


9f 


120 


60 


11 


1 


1 


2 


45 


80 


28 


ti 


6 


1 


8 


121 
* • 


75 


28 


it 


8 


1 


8 


85 


125 


28 


n 


8 


8 


12 


40 


280 


14 


ii 


13 


1 


8 


6* 


140 


11 


tt 


13 


8 


10 


55* 


85 


55 


it 


22 


1 


2 


462 


70 


18 


ti 


27 


1 


2 


54 


140 


12 


tt 


27 


8 


9 


41 


400 


23 


Au-oist 2 


1 


2 


45! 


60 


28 


it 


8 


1 


2 


57 


70 


7 


it 


7. 


5 


16 


241 


Scratch 


17 


it 


7 


1 


8 


18 


70 


12 


It 


7 


8 


9 


47 


240 


20 


ft 


7 


1 


8 


23 


40 


17 


ti 


7 


8 


10 


54 


160 


6 


it 


7 


1 


4 


51 


Scratch 


28 


it 


7 


1 


8 


9t 


100 


16 


It 


7 


8 


10 


81 


140 


16 


ti 


7 


5 


17 


252 


420 


11 


i* 


7 


1 


8 


59 


50 


15 


Ii 


7 


1 


8 


It 


i 60 


23 


ti 


7 


I 


2 


49 


120 


17 


tt 


7 


8 


9 


1 


225 


14 


It 


7 


5 


15 


16 


120 


40 


tt 


19 


1 


8 


5 


50 


24 


11 


19 


1 


8 


56; 


110 


28 


a 


22 


2 


7 


3 


150 


17 


It 


23 


2 


6 


44J 


130 


18 


It 


23 


1 


4 


0.* 


130 


19 


it 


23 


1 


8 


10{ 


110 


17 


It 


23 


8 


10 


23i 


200 


23 


tt 


30 


2 


8 


40 


Scratch 


20 


Sept. 


9 


1 


2 


54 


Scratch 


49 


tt 


9 


1 


3 


10 


55 


37 


it 


16 


1 


2 


541 


65 


19 


tt 


16 


1 


3 


o| 


85 


9 


tt 


16 


1 


3 


16J 


70 


9 


It 


16 


1 


8 


22 


Scratch 


33 


It 


23 


1 


3 


5 


95 


11 


II 


28 


1 


2 


59 


140 


3 


tt 


28 


1 


3 


524 


120 


17 


Oct. 


19 


1 


3 


88 


40 


7 


II 


19 


8 


No 


time ^ 


120 



Second. 
Yards. 



Thtid. 
Yards. 



1 Brighton 

2 Do 

3 OXPOBD 

4 GUAVESEND 

6 Do 

6 Taunton 

7 Do 

8 Do 

9 SOBRET 

10 Richmond 

11 Do. 

12 Do. 

13 Univebsttt Colleob 

14 Alexandra Palace 

15 Do. 

16 Stanley 

17 Gravesend 

18 Do. 

19 Plymouth 

20 Do. 

21 Bournemouth 

22 Do. 

23 Do. Tricycle ... 

24 Huntingdon 

25 Victoria Athletic Club ... 

26 Do. 

27 Civil Sebvice Sports 

28 West Kent 

29 Wanderers 

30 Pbivate Banks 

31 Temple 

82 Stanley ... 

88 Sutton 

84 Beading 

35 Beckenham Cbioket Club 

86 Beloravb 

87 Stanley 

38 Babtoombb Park 

89 Do. 

40 Chichester 

41 Do 

42 Bictcle Union 

43 Eastbourne Bicycle Club 

44 Do. 

45 Wandebebs 

46 Stanley 

47 Civil Sebvice Supply Assoc. 

48 Southend 

49 Do 

60 Fbeemantlk 

61 Do 

52 Do. Tbicycle. 

53 Essex Bicycle & Tbicycle 

64 Do. do. 

65 Do. do. 

56 Do. Tbicycle ... 

57 NoBTH Kent , 

58 Taunton 

69 Do 

60 Do 

61 Beckenham Bicycle Club 

62 Ravensboubne 

63 Newbuby 

64 Devonshibe Park 

65 Do. Tbicycle ... 

66 Winchester 

67 Do 

68 DovEB ... 

69 Gbesuam Athletic Club ... 

70 Surrey 

71 Kildabe 

72 Bbiohton 

73 Do 

74 Do 

76 Sayes Court ATHLETiC Club 

76 BOUBNEMOUTH 

77 Do. Tricycle ... 

78 East Essex Bicycle Club 

79 Do. do. 



100 
830 

40 
110 
400 

70 
400 
880 
110 
180 
100 

40 

96 
100 
Scratch 

90 

80 
400 
110 
180 

56 
260 

60 

56 

Scratch 

Scratch 

15 
100 

55 
Scratch 
Scratch 

40 

65 

75 
Scratch 
110 

60 
160 
890 
170 
350 
116 
140 
460 

80 

60 
200 
100 
Scratch 
100 
260 

40 

65 
Scratch 
160 

60 

66 
120 
200 
380 
170 
130 

60 
170 

40 

80 

275 
120 
130 
40 
60 
60 
Scratch 
50 
80 
85 
150 
Scratch 
Scratch 



40 
120 

70 

85 
600 
130 
200 
Scratch 
160 
820 

66 

60 
100 

40 
300 

90 

90 
320 
150 
325 

90 
Scratch 
Scratch 

100 
\ 1>50 
(270 
275 
Scratch 
110 

35 

40 

80 

76 

75 
110 

40 
106 

60 
150 
890 

26 

65 

80 
160 
460 
110 
Scratch 
800 

90 

90 

80 
190 

40 

100 
170 

75 

10 

60 
125 
600 
135 
Scratch 
120 

30 

90 
S 90 
( 130 
Scratch 

20 

96 

55 
140 

40 
130 

70 

95 

50 

150 



Digitized by 



Google 



I 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



13 



GENERAL SUMMARY. 



Placea 'average 
*^""^'| Btart. 


Scratch 
men. 


25 yds. 1 50y«lB. 

and I and 
under, j nnder. 


75 yds. 

and 
under. 


100 ydg. 125 yds. 150 yds. 200 yds. 

and 1 and and and 
under, j under, under, j under. 


300yds.' iOOyds. q 

and , and ' iiXfr. 
under. under, ^y***- 


Total. 


First..] 61 


12 


1 1 8 


13 


11 11 i 9 


4 


8 4 1 8 


79 


Secondj 64 


11 


1 I 9 


18 


13 7 14 


9 


8 1 8 1 1 


79 


Thii-d. 64 


7 


8 { 11 


10 


15 ! 7 i 8 


5 


5 1 4 1 8 


78 


Total.! 63 


80 


5 1 28 1 36 


89 1 25 1 21 


18 


11 16 1 7 


286 



THE MENTOR. 

Plato has remarked, " Man is an imitative being and 
if, as one of the greatest thinkers of our age has maintained, 
we are the lineal descendants of the pre-historic ape, we 
need not be ashamed to find that we are endowed with his 
especial attribute. Thus it may well have happened that 
our bicycling career has owed its origin not so much to an 
actual inclination to move on wheels, as because we have 
been led or talked into it by some one who has assumed the 
role of our mentor. I am aware that this proposition is 
open to dispute ; but there must be some who will remember 
sitting at the feet of a Gamaliel learned in bicycling lore. 
Our friend will liave probably several years our senior, and 
his experience may have dated from thei era when men's 
bones were shaken on wheels of hickory. 

The first scene discloses the interior of an outhouse or 
shed, where the Mephistopheles of our drama is discovered 
cleaning- the last of his two-wheeled favourites after an 
evening spin. A youth, prima intonadque juventd, repre- 
sents Faust, and is seated a little distance off, on the edge 
of an old crate, watching the proceedings with apparent 
interest, and listening to the words of wisdom as they fall 
from his companion's lips during the intervals in his work. 
Probably the great man will expatiate on the beauty and 
particular excellence of each portion coming under his 
direct notice as the cleaning progresses. Then he will be 
led to air his opinions on the machines of different makers, 
and of course can arrive at but one conclusion — that not 
only is the maker of his machine the best, but that the 
machine itself is the finest specimen that maker has ever 
turned out. From the merits of the bicycle to those of its 
rider is an easy stage enough, and his listener's ears are 
next treated to a relation of the veteran's exploits on road 
and racing path. The glowing embers of emulation are 
fanned into a flame, and our youth, as he meditatively goes 
home that evening, has but one thought, and that is: "Why 
should not. he ride a bicycle too ? " 

Of course the governor has to be got over, and of course 
the mater has something to say about the dangers of the 
sport. It is a noticeable fact that while a mother is the 
first to dissuade her sons from enterprise, she is also the 
first to share in the triumph when success is achieved. We 
will imagine that parental objection of either kind has been 
overcome, and the rudiments of the art mastered in the 
customary fashion on a friend's superannuated crock, then. 



after a consultation with the mentor of a length propor- 
tionate to the importance of the subject, the new machine 
is ordered. Our first machine is a landmark that even 
after lapse of time still stands out in bold relief. We do 
not easily forget the keen excitement with which we 
expected its arrival, and the impatience with which we 
regarded that inevitable delay. At length it does arrive, 
and as soon as unpacked it is wheeled round for inspection 
at headquarters. We all know the fearful significance of 

those three monosyllables, ** Ah ! yes ; but " when in 

breathless expectation we are exhibiting to a connoisseur 
something that is our especial pride ; so in the present case 
there were points which the expert found, or pretended to 
find, not quite to his liking ; but on the whole, perhaps, 
the verdict was favourable, and an appointment was made 
for a short ride together at an early date. 

I do not propose to follow closely the relations between 
master and pupil as exemplified by the events that followed. 
We all are, or all ought to be — ^to put it negatively — ^not 
without some experience in the matter. We have learnt, 
or ought to have learnt, that to lean ad libitum over the 
handles going up hill has a tendency to contract the respira- 
tory organs ; and further, that it is not advisable on every 
hill to begin by throwing one s legs over the handles, and 
to end by throwing- oneself into the hedge. The first 
orthodoxical principles were gradually instilled into the 
youth's mind with occasional illustrations suggested more 
or less forcibly by the road, its surface, and diversities. 
Then the mentor was an inventive genius in his way, and 
had countless remedies of his own concoction against the 
two primary evils of bicycling— thirst and soreness. Un- 
limited, too, were the items of his paraphernalia, all of the 
most scientific kind ; and the fervid manner with which he 
would preach their efficacy was enough to ensure respect 
and carry conviction even to the most hardened heretic. 
The worst of it was, that as fa.shion changes so did these 
ideas ; some held sway longer than others, but almost in 
every case his mind, fertile in inventions, compelled him to 
abandon his old nostra for fresh improvements. Do what we 
will, time ever changes our opinions : the more firmly they 
appear rooted in our inmost self the more readily are they 
changed. We ofton hear a friend laying down the law in 
dogmatical fashion something in this style. Just listen to 
him : " A painted machine ! " — ^with disgust — " Paint's 
always coming ofi" ; why don't you have a plated one like 



Googh 



Digitized by 



14 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



mine ? " A few months after, his song is " Nothing like a 
painted machine ; haven't I always said so ? I wouldn't 
have a plated one for anything ; " and so on. These are 
the kind of difficulties our tyro had to encounter in more 
or less a degree, and it was only unbounded confidence in 
his chief that bore him safely among the pitfalls of apparent 
contradiction until at length he was able to throw aside 
the leading-strings, and perhaps in his turn set up as an 
authority. 

So much for the subject from a comical point of view ; 
and here I would pause to apologise to any who may feel 
their susceptibilities wounded by a caricature limned in 
outlines gross and imperfect. After all, the model whose 
eccentricities stand out most consjDicuously is none other 
than the writer himself. 

Though my^ joints are beginning to stiffen, and my limbs 
to lose their youthful elasticity, I well remember the time 
when my blood would quicken and my pulses beat at the 
very sight of a bicycle. What countless pleasant recollections 
does not the vision even now conjure up ! And all these I 
owe to the friend who first persuaded me by example and 
precept to take to the wheel. The youth who has been 
inspired early in life by some one or other with notions 
bicyclical, will be likely in after years similarly to incite 
others to like action, and thus may hope to experience the 
double pleasure of being himself a credit to his instructor, 
and when he has retired from active service with his 
" honours thick upon him," of seeing reproduced in his 
pupil a bicycling spirit as ardent as his own. DoDO. 



ASHRIDGE PARK, ETC. 
A joint meet of L.B.C. members and friends at 
Hemel Hempstead would have taken place on the 28th 
October, but owing to heavy rain it was postponed till the 
4th November, when luckily the weather was fine. I 
started on my own account from Kensington, and arrived 
at Watford before dark. Stones in some places very thick, 
especially near the Harrow Road Station, mud awful every- 
where. I lighted up in Watford and pushed on to Hemel 
Hempstead. About an hour after my arrival the rest came 
from Hampstead, including J. W. Alison of ours; the others 
consisted of one double "tri.," a single, and bicycles. 
Having housed the machines, we sat down, a merry party 
of ten, to tea. The next morning was fine, but a very 
strong wind blew from the north-west. Our route 
lay througli W^aterend, Nettleden, Gaddesden Green, to 
Ringshal. Here two of the party, who would get out of 
calling distance, took the wrong turning, and went to 
Dagnal. We did not see them again for some time. From 
Ringshal we went down the side of Beacon Hill, past 
Ivinghoe, to Albury, then up the hill into the park, and 
made for the Bridgewater column. Tegetmeier had written 
for an order to go up it, so we made the ascent. The two 
missing ones joined us here. The view from the top was 



very fine, but the tents were not so various as usual, owing 
to the wet and high winds. Having regained our machines, 
we rode through the park and past the house back to 
Hemel Hempstead for lunch. About four o'clock tlie party 
broke up, Alison, Green, T.B.C., and myself going home 
through Watford, Oxey Lanes, and Kenton Lanes. The 
latter were in splendid order. We had a heavy gale behind 
us as well. Alison left us at Kenton, so Green and I went 
on together down the Harrow Road, to Westbourne Park, 
where we parted company. At Willesden Junction the 
galQ blew both my lamps out ; I had great difficulty in 
re-lighting. I arrived in Kensington a trifle wet, as it had 
begun to rain ; tlie other seven went home via St. Albans. 
This is tlie third year that we have carried out this run 
witli great succe»', and we all hope to do it many times 
again. A. H. Koch. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
For Sale.— Bicycle, 52-inch, W. Keen's "Norwood;" 
all bright except spokes and felloes. Roller bearings to 
front wheel, cone to back, spoon brake. Price £9. To be 
seen after 7.0 p.m. — J. B. Young, Woodlea, Fairfield Road, 
Croydon. 

ECHOES. 

The Dramatic is on a fair way to success, but there 
are a few members who have yet forgotten to apply for 
tickets. 

• **•»* 

The gallery is a good cheap place for small boys and 
members' brothers. 

W. A. Smith and A. B. W. Whatton were elected at the 
B.U. Council Meeting to serve on the Sub-Committee, 
suggested by the latter, to inquire into the possibility of 
the B.U. taking upon itself the regulation on professional 
racing and the management of a professional championship. 
The other members of the Sub-Committee are Messrs. 
Hillier and Sturmey, and it is probable that one or two 

professionals will be asked to serve with them. 

• ••••• 

When members wish to express the utter incapacity of 
an ex -Editor they should be sure that he has vacated the 
Editorial chair. It was more convenient that this Gazette 
should be brought out by the 1882 Editor, and it was 
amusing to see the " Genial Maclean " and him chuckling 
over the complimentary letters that arrived for the latter's 
successor, rejoicing in the prospect of " a properly edited 
Gazette." 

• •««•« 

" But I am Scriitton^mw^ " said a jocular member at 
the General Meeting, when the Scrutineers objected to 

his expressing his opinion on the validity of a voting-paper. 

• ♦ ♦ ♦ • • 

The N.E. have oiilj^ supplied six officers besides their two 
Committeemen this season. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



15 



H. H. SherriflF, after seven years' bicycling and hard 
touring, and never having met with an accident of any 
consequence, has lately broken his leg in his own house 
whilst dancing. It is the more strange, because, being 
fond of athletics in all branches, he has taken a vigorous 
share in its dangers, especially in bicycling, and never been 
hurt. However, six weeks will see him about again, and it 
is not unlikely that he will be quite fit to take part in the 
Bath Trial Race. Ramblee. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(CONTINUBD KBOM FAOK 252, VOL. V.) 

(<?.) Thb Gbmmi (7550 feet) ; that is, to the top of the 
pass and back for the sake of the view, which is quite 
unique and undoubtedly one of the finest in Switzerland. 
It is, however, no use going except in settled weather. 
I have only to add to the usual information of the guide 
books, that somewhere about half way up there is a nice 
little lake (green this time, not blue) in a retired nook quite 
close to though unseen from the path, in which you can 
get a delicious bathe if you want one. About two and a 
quarter hours' climbing from Kandersteg brings you to some 
open pastures on your right, with ch&lets ('' Spitalmatt "). 
Shortly after passing these you come to a long straight bit 
of raised pathway on the side of which you will observe a 
little white granite stone. It indicates, I believe, the 
boundary between the Canton Bern and the Canton Valais. 
At this point you will notice on your right a smooth green 
sward narrowing up between two banks of limestone, rocks 
and firwood, and looking as if it had been sometime a lake. 
Follow this up, and at the head of the glade some four 
hundred yards distant from the path you will find the little 
lake. The water is so clear that you will be entirely 
deceived as to its depth. A header may be taken with 
perfect safety from a rock jutting out into the water on the 
left-hand side ; that is, it could be taken three years ago, 
but I daresay the amount of water varies with the season. 
I have a special interest in this little lake, for to its dis- 
covery I practically owe my life and that of my Zermatt 
guide. We were staying at Kandersteg, and were making 
an expedition up Altels, the base of which you reach by the 
Gemmi path. As we were walking along the path a little 
below this point we noticed on our left the remains of an 
avalanche spanning the glacier stream beneath us and 
forming an apparently secure snow bridge across it. With- 
out this bridge the stream was impassable, and a very 
considerable detour was necessary in order to reach our 
mountain on the other side of it ; but we saw that by its 
aid we should be able to make a short cut down the 
mountain and efTect a great saving of time in the descent. 
We determined accordingly that we would return to 
Kandersteg by this bridge. But as we were descending the 



long monotonous slope of Altels my eye was riveted b)* this 
little emerald lake as it caught the sun and sparkled like a 
jewel in the middle of the wood. The idea of a bathe was 
at that moment irrestible, and so I countermanded the 
proposed short cut, and we came down the same way as we 
had ascended, crossing the stream higher up and making 
direct for the lake. After the bathe we proceeded home- 
wards down the path and came to the point from which we 
had observed the snow bridge. At the very moment we 
got there we heard a sudden crash ; the bridge dropped into 
the stream and split into a hundred fragments, which were 
hurried away by the impetuous torrent to the precipices 
below. Such would have been our fate but for this little 
green lake ! 

As regards time, you must allow from four and a half to 
five hours for the ascent of the Gemmi, and half that time 
for the return to Kandersteg, exclusive of halts. The 
earlier you start the better, not only because you will have 
a shadier walk, but because your chance of getting the 
view is so much greater. You ought to be on your legs by 
five a.m. at the latest. 

All this might be done in two days if you were in very 
first-rate condition, and make early starts. Thus, leaving 
Thun at 5.30, you would be at the Blue Lake by about eight 
and the Victoria about 10.30, allowing for all halts. The 
(Eschinen See would take you till two, and after a lunch you 
would reach the " Bar " at three, and have time for the 
Gasteren Thai before dinner. Then leaving Kandersteg at 
dawn (say at 4.30) you would be back from the Gemmi some- 
where about 2.30, allowing for all halts ; and after a rest 
you would start back for Thun at 4.30 and reach it about 
seven. But this is a mixture of bicycling and moun- 
taineering in somewhat strong doses, and the employment 
of two distinct sets of muscles makes the business fatiguing. 
We all know, for instance, how hard it is to walk even a 
mile or two after a day's skating, and I expect most riders 
will feel similarly disinclined for bicycling to Thun so soon 
after seven or eight hours of stiff walking on the Gemmi. 
The best plan, therefore, is to sleep two nights at Kandersteg, 
giving the Gemmi a day to itself. Ton can then take the 
Blue Lake and the Gasteren Thai on the first day, the 
Gemmi on the second, and the (Eschinen See on your way 
back on the third. Early starts, however, are an advantage 
under all circumstances. 

The Kandersteg breezes, as they rushMown from the glaciers 
above, are not only fresh and bracing but gusty and tyran- 
nical, and you must not be surprised at finding yourself occa- 
sionally brought up sharp, or even blown over as you ride 
up the valley. Perhaps this keen vigour of the air may 
account for the remarkable development of observation and 
memory in the inhabitants. As I was wheeling up the 
Buhl Stutz this year, a boy, anxious (like everyone else in 
the Canton Bern) to seize any opportunity of earning coin, 
came up, and offered to relieve me of the task. He, as it 



Digitized by 



16 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



vere, claimed acquaintance with DIB on the score of having 
once seen me riding by two years ago. There was, of course, 
nothing remarkable in this, but J confess I was rather 
astonished when, after a momentary glance at the bicycloi 
he remarked : " That is the same yelocipede, sir, you had 
with you before, only you have got a new brake an; " which 
was exactly the case. 

i 10. Tie Simmentkal. 

Height. Distance. 

Feet Miles. 

1860 — Than (Thtmerliof). 

1850 Si ... Gwatt 

2060 7 Brothiiuffl. 

2200 10 ... LatterUch. 

2400 llj .../. KrlenlMush. 

2410 ... m Weissonbuig. 

2720 21 Boltigen. 

2800 24i Garstatt. 

8125 27 Zweisimmen. 

8265 ... 30 St. Stephan. 

8480 86i Lenk. 

Take right-hand fork quarter mile beyond Gwatt; the 
hill lasts for a short mile only, terminating soon after a 
bend to the right ; still, if you are meditating the seventy- 
one miles in the day, it will be wise to walk it, unless 
surface and wind are favourable. Half a mile beyond 
Brothausi (or Brodhusi) the road to Wimmis crosses the 
Simme by a bridge on your left ; you follow the valley and 
river straight on, it will keep twisting round to the right at 
the back of the Stockhorn. A mile or so after passing this 
bridge road forks. The left one leads down to Diemtigen ; 
yours, the right, leads on to Latterbach, a long straggling 
village on ups and downs of road ; the last hill in it had 
better be walked. There is no possibility of your mistaking 
the road elsewhere. You have the Simme on your left, 
mostly close to you, the whole way to Garstatt, where you 
cross it to re-cross it again three quarters of a mile higher 
up. The hill between these two bridges will give you a 
convenient relief from the saddle. This, and the hill in 
Latterbach, are the only occasions for a dismount, and the 
whole return journey may be made without once quitting 
the saddle. At Zweisimmen you still follow up the main 
valley, bearing down slightly to your left for the purpose. 
Between St. Stephan and Lenk a loop leads up on your left 
to the village of Matten, you keep tike lower or main road, 
avoiding the village. There is not a single stage of this 
route which is not worth a visit for its own sake, so varied 
and delightful is the scenery, but the crowning point of all 
is Lenk, at the head of it, with the magnificent glaciers of 
the Wildstrubel contrasting with the green pastures below. 
Between Wehsenburg and Garstatt you have ten miles of 
narrow and precipitous gorge where there is only jost room 
for road and river. Should you not have time or inclina- 
tion to make the whole course, any portion of it will make 
an enjoyable ride. The famous baths and hotel of Weissen- 
burg, situated in a narrow chasm some twenty minutes 
above the road, are well worth a visit em route. Bicycles 
must be left at the roadside inn below. As places for re- 



freshment you have for choice Weissenburg (Baths), Zweisim- 
men, Boltigen, and Lenk, the hotels at the two former 
being superior to the others. Notice the beautiful chalets 
in Erlenbach. Gerard F. Cobb. 

Thunerhof, Thun, July, 1882. 

(To be continued.) 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
BICYCLE UNION, 

WITH WHICH IS INCORPORATED THB TRICYCLE ASSOCIATION. 

Sir, — I am requested by the Executive of the Bicycle 
Union to make public through your columns the fact that 
they do not propose this year to call the usual meeting of 
racing men to recommend a candidate for the post of 
handicapper. They have come to this determination on 
the following grounds : — 

1. The Council of the Union is now so thoroughly 
representative in the south that there can be very little 
difficulty in ascertaining the opinion of all prominent racing 
men through the delegates to the Council of tlie Clubs to 
which such racing men belong. 

2. As Mr. G. P. Coleman, the present handicapper, 
offers himself for re-election, the necessity for ascertaining 
the opinion of racing men is not so great as if an entirely 
new man must be chosen. 

3. The time and labour required to call such a meeting 
is so considerable that the Executive in the present over- 
worked state of their officials do not feel themselves justified 
in incurring it without obvious necessity. 

The Executive have carefully limited their determination 
to this year only so as not to create any precedent against 
ascertaining directly the opinion of racing men. 

The Executive will be glad to receive any suggestions 
from racing men or others as to candidates for the post of 
handicapper or the duties of the office to guide them in 
their recommendations to the Council. Such suggestions 
should be addressed to m3rself at the Union Office as soon 
as possible. — I am, yours truly, 

Wm. Ptb-English, Hon. Sec. 

17, Ironmonger Lane, E.C., Jan. 6, 1883. 

BINDING, ETC. 
Covers for binding Vol. V. are now ready, price 4s. ; 
also Title-page and Index, gratis. Members who wish to 
keep their Gazettes clean during the year can obtain Cases, 
price 2s. Back Numbers are supplied at Id. each. Appli- 
cation should be made for the above to the publishers. 

ANSWER TO CORRESPONDENT. 
H. H. S. — ^We much regret to hear of your accident. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
An oontribatioiis must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
neoeasarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and must be received not later than Tuesday, the 27th Feb., 
at 6 p.m. 

Printed for the Tropneton by Dablino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 89« Eastcheap, London, B.C.— February 8, 1888. 



Digitized by 



^ an Aon ^is^^cU €hh 

An Official Rkcobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C, 
Vol. VI. No. 3.] """^^ March 1, 1883. 



OONT 

PAGE 



Swan-Song and Cackle 17 

Committee 18 

Tricycling 18 

District Notices 19 

Smokiog Concert 19 

Editor's Declaration 19 

L.B.O. Dramatic Sodety 20 

Notes from the Gallery 22 



The neai Gazette wiU be published on Thursday, 29th 
March. Copy should be sent in not later than Tuesday, 
the 27 tK 



SWAN-SONG AND CACKLE. 

A catching title is a good thing ; so also is an enigmatical 
one. We venture to say with more than usual editorial 
confidence that, of the large and intelligent circle of readers 
who have been led by the merits of preceding editors to 
await the coming of their Gazettb with eagerness, the vast 
majority will put one common question, and form one 
common resolve, on seeing the phrase at the head of this 
column. With one voice they will ask, " What on earth 
does it mean?" With one will they will determine to read 
the article and find out. 

The title has its merits. It is not, as may be conjectured 
at first, the name of a new and enterprising firm of makers 
unrepresented at the Stanley Show. No blandishments of 
eager agents have induced the incorruptible Maclean to 
advertise anybody's patent washing machines on the front 
page of this non-mercenary journal. The title— for the 
secret must out at last — is intended to express by what 
Mrs. Malaprop calls "a neat derangement of epitaphs" 
the melancholy fact that this number represents the first 
feeble cackle of the new-bom Editor, and that the L.B.C. 
has heard, to our sorrow be it spoken, the last official 
utterance, perhaps, like the swan's, sweetest at death, of 
Mr. P. M.Williams. 

Such a conjunction enables us in pulpit fashion to divide 



BNTS. 

PAOS 



Fixtures for Club Meets... 22 

Our Franco-Swiss Tour of 1882 23 

TheC.U.Bi.C 27 

All Round the Wlieel 27 

Quills 27 

Correspondence 28 

March Valentines 28 

Notice to Correspondents 28 



our subject into two heads— the work of 1882 and the 
prospects of 1883. The second head we defer till some 
future number, when we propose to give utterance to the 
Editorial views on spelling, punctuation, and things in 
general. The first part of our theme is amply sufficient 
for any of our readers to grapple with at a sitting. But 
while to write of the Gazette during the last year leads 
inevitably to the virtues of its Editor, we are under con- 
siderable difficulties in dealing with the subject satisfactorily. 
West Drayton is a little too far from the wilds of Essex for 
a midnight journey to serenade the sleeper with " Oh, teach 
me how to praise thee, Fred ! " Every method of writing 
suggests dangers. To say the post is difficult savours of 
conceit in the new Editor who has been chosen to fill it ; 
that it is easy suggests lack of appreciation of the time 
and trouble the old Editor has bestowed on the work. To 
be enthusiastic about the merits of a man who combines 
great modesty with a very violent disposition, as Mr. 
Williams does, is to expose oneself to considerable danger 
of assault and battery ; to be lukewarm in the praises of 
one so popular in the Club is to court dismissal, after brief 
but disgraceful tenure of office, by a Special General 
Meeting called by unanimous requisition of our members. 
Shall we adopt the tone of the Saturday Review, and say, 
"that in all fairness to the retiring Editor, while we have no 
wish to overlook or extenuate his undoubtedly grave errors, 
we must candidly confess that he has not been such a complete 
failure as was expected when he somehow got himself 
elected to the office." Or shall we take the pen of the 



Digitized by 




- 




— 




18 LONDON BICYCLE 


CLUB GAZETTE. 






Daily Telegraph and remark, after an exordium lightly 
touching upon Lesbia's sparrow, the Hounslow inquest, the 
Tower of Babel, and the Rucker tricycle, that "the fertilising 
power and civilising influence of the Editor's work rarely 
meets with its appropriate reward. Like the Man in the 
Iron Mask, or the Veiled Prophet of Ehorassan, his might 
is great, his name and features unknown. But when the 
identity of a wielder of leaders and shaper of paragraphs 
emerges from the fuliginous mist that closely and murkily 
enshrouds the editorial sanctum, meet it is that all honour 
be given him for his glorious work. And we doubt if ever, 
since Homer edited the chronicles of the Trojan conflict, 
since Dr. Watts bestowed his selective revision on that 
collection of sacred songs so entwined with the greatness 
of our Imperial England, down to the days of the pithy and 
powerful work of the pilot of our interesting contemporary, 
'Dirty Cottonaceous Filaments, a Seminal Radiator of 
Caloric Intensity,' — if ever, during these aeons, such master- 
ful skill of writing, such learned profundity of quotation, 
such unerring tact of selection, or generally such ineffable 
power of evolution, have ever been so transcendentally 
combined as in the person of the retiring Editor of this 
Gazettb." 

Seriously, however, we can say of Mr. Williams what he 
himself would wish to be said of him, but what to those 
who know him needs no saying, that " he did his duty in 
that station of life to which it pleased the LB.O. to call 
him." It will be a bad thing for our Club if it ever becomes 
a mere Mutual Admiration Society, but it would be still 
more unfortunate if the hard work of any member in the 
service of the Club for a series of years were allowed to pass 
without a word of recognition in the columns of the Club 
Gazette. And thus we feel that we are only expressing in 
plain and simple words what every one of our members can 
say with the greatest sincerity, that the hearty thanks of 
the Club are due and are given to Frederick Monier 
Williams for his work for the L.B.C., and especially for the 
time and trouble he has bestowed on this Gazette during 
the past year. 

COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 
12th February, the following gentlemen were elected 
members of the Club : — 

Nane and Addreio. PropOMr. Seconder. 
Walter Chas. Oswald, Duppas 

Hifl^ Croydon J. C. Oswald. H. G. A. Brown. 

Harold C. Pigott, Elmside, 

The Avenue, MiU HiU 

Francis Buchanan Smith, 

Woodlands, Sevenoaks H. G. Morgan. H. G. A. Brown. 

John Russell Walter, Ford 

House, WeUington, Somer- 

Reginald Cooper Willis, Amp- 
iield House, Shooter's Hill 


The resignations of Messrs. Norman Carr, H. T. Crosby, 
J. Franklin, G. B. Hill, R. Jacks, and F. H. Townend were 
accepted. 

The resignation of Mr. D. T. Nops was accepted with 
regret. 

Mr. S. P. Smith was elected to the Committee. 

It was decided not to send a delegate to the meeting 
convened by the Finchley Tricycle Club for the purpose of 
discussing the adyisability of road races, and admission to 
the public parks, etc. 

The following gentlemen were appointed as a Race 
Committee for the present year : — Messrs. Beck, H. G. A. 
Brown, G. P. Coleman, Theo. Godlee, S. P. Smith, and 
0. Thorn, with Captain and Hon. Sec. ex officio. 

On the motion of Mr. F. M. Williams it was resolved — 
" That every encouragement be given to tricyclists to join 
our Club, and that a Sub-Committee be appointed to con- 
sider the necessary alterations in Rules, and what form the 
encouragement shall take, especially whether the holding of 
a Road Trial for tricyclists is desirable." Messrs. Theo. 
Godlee, R G. Francis, W. E. Naylor, A. L. Radford, W. A. 
Smith, and F. M. Williams were aJ)pointed for this purpose. 

It was decided that the meeting with the O.U.Bi.C. and 
C.U.Bi.C. be held at Dunstable this year, provided it is 
convenient to the two University Clubs. 

The opening run of the season was fixed for 17th March. 

It was also decided that a Smoking Concert be held in 
March. Messrs. A. Lloyd, S. P. Smith, and 0. Thorn were 
appointed a Sub-Committee for that purpose. 

TRICYCLING.-IMPORTANT 

It will be in the recollection of members that at the 
Annual General Meeting a resolution in the following terms 
was agreed to as an amendment to W. A. Smith's pro- 
position on the subject, viz. : — 

" That the qaestion of a Tricycle Road Trial, together with the general 
question of the position of tricyclists in the Club, and of any changes in 
CInb organisation necessary to meet the growth of tricycling, be referred 
to the Committee to report on to a Special Qeneral Meeting to be held 
within three months from now, or aa soon after as possible." 

Acting on this resolution, the Committee has delegated 
to a Sub-Committee the consideration of the best form of 
encouragement to be given to tricyclists^ with a view to 
inducing them to join our ranks ; and further, what altera* 
tions, if any, would be necessary in our rules to carry out 
any such change, and also the desirability of holding a 
Tricyclists' Road Trial. 

The Sub-Committee feel that they could not usefully 
make any recommendation or report without having before 
them the views of those members who have carefully con- 
sidered this question, and of those who more especially 
favour the three-wheeler. 

The time limited for the General Meeting is, however, 
very short, and I shall therefore be much obliged if any 




Digitized by VjIJOV IC 





LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



19 



members belonging to either of the above classes will at once 
forward me their views on the general subject, that is to 
say, what form of encouragement, if any, should be ofifered, 
and whether a Road Trial should be organised. 

Abhlet Babbett, Captain. 



EASTER RUN FROM BATH. 
I shall be glad to meet a large party of our men at the 
"White Lion,'* Bath, on Sunday, March 25th, for the 
annual run up to town next day. 

Ashley Babbett, Captain. 



N.E. DlSTBICT. 

I hope that members of the ** Little District " will do 
their best to turn out on the 17th March. The run is 
short and easy, and the destination comfortable ; besides, 
we must try to make our average attendance at meets 
nearly as large as our average at Committees, if we can. 

Theo. Oodlee, District Captain. 



N.W. DlSTBICT. 

I shall be very much obliged if members will make an 
effort to attend the first run of the season to Shenley. The 
run is not a long one, and we shall get back by nine o'clock. 

Palmeb Dalton, District Captain. 



S.E. DlSTBICT. 

For those energetic spirits who are anxious to rub off the 
rust of the past wet months, there will be two preliminary 
runs, starting from Croydon Central Station at 4.15, viz. : 
March 3rd — Downe ; March 10th — Bletchiugley. The less 
enthusiastic are respectfully requested to reserve their 
energies for the opening run to Orpington on March 17th, 
when members will have an opportunity of showing 
whether or no the District has fallen off from the good 
form it has displayed at the opening meets of previous 
years. Stephen P. Smith has again kindly consented to 
take charge of the Blackheath Division, and I think we 
may regard that as something more than a good omen for 
the ensuing season. 

The opening run will be to Orpington, as announced 
elsewhere, the two divisions joining company at five o'clock 
on Farnborough Common. 

R. G. Fbakcis, District Captain. 



S.W. DlSTBICT. 

Members of this District will please note that the opening 
run will be on the 17tli March next, when we ride to 
Sunbury to meet the West. As the distance is short and 
the proposed route a very pleasant one, I hope that all 
members will make a preliminary effort to be present, in 
spite of wind or weather, and consequently that we shall 



secure a good representative gathering. No membei^ho 
is going in for the Bath Trial should neglect to attend any 
of our Meets previous to that date if he looks for success 
upon that occasion. The Circular Run proposed for 
Saturday the 31st March is an exceptionally attractive 
one, and if the day be fine a large muster is expected. 
The route will be by Surbiton lanes, Long Ditton Church, 
Claygate, Ockshott, and Stoke D'Abemon to Cobham, 
where we tea at the "Red Lion.'' 

R. M. Obuqgen, District Captain. 



DISTRICT MEETING. 
At a meeting of members of the Western District, held 
at Dr. Langmore's house on Thursday, the 22nd ultimo, 
Mr. H. C. Pigott was unanimously elected District Captain 
vice D. T. Nops, resigned.* 



SMOKING CONCERT. 

Members have already received notice of the above 
entertainment, which will take place at the " City Arms," 
St. Mary Axe, on Thursday, March 15th, at 7.0. p.m. 

A first-class programme is being arranged, including 
glees, solos, and instrumental pieces by the most musically 
efficient members of the Club; as well as one or more 
recitations, and a novel feature in the shape of a conjuring 
performance by a member well**known in athletic circles for 
his skill in that line. 

The price of the tickets is Is. each. The number will 
be limited to 200, and early application should be made to 
0. Thorn, 11, Ladbroke Square, W., or A. Lloyd, The 
Winus, Waltliamstow. 

Members willing to take part in the programme are 
requested to write to Stephen P. Smith, 9, Morden Road, 
Blackheath, S.E. 

Mr. Dutton, who accompanied and sang at the Dinner, 
will again help on this occasion. 



DECLARATION 

9Bhm3t0 the undersigned have after due consideration 
been appointed Editors of this Gazette by a General 
Meeting of great collective wisdom as shown by such 
appointment 

Jlnb tohtxtM the undersigned although feeling them- 
selves to be individuals of great intellectual and literary 
ability do not feel capable of supplying the Gazette for 
the year out of their joint and several heads £Lo\x> UttBZ 
pxts^tntsf Hit U b)itiU00 that we do call upon all our 
loving contributors and fellow members and especially upon 
W. R. Sewell R. G. Francis Theo. Godlee and Ashley 
Barrett their heirs executors administrators and assigns to 
furnish us forthwith with as much good and valuable matter 
as we may at any time happen to want Jlnb further to 
send us forthwith all information of whatever size shape or 



I 



Digitized by VJ^JO^IC 











20 LONDON BICYCLE 


CLUB GAZETTE. 






quaffiy soever which they or any of them may meet with 
anywhere for use in this our said Gazbttb 

Jlnb tokntig sundry of our American cousins and papers 
follow the good and praiseworthy custom of keeping a 
fighting man on their staff to settle any little differences 
which may arise hy reason of matter inserted in their said 
papers £L6^ thia is to {ibt notia that I T. E. Scrutton 
do hereby undertake and am duly prepared to do all the 
fighting for this paper and accept all responsibility for any- 
thing not being quotations in a foreign language which 
may appear in the said paper and I Arthur Lloyd do 
hereby disclaim all responsibility for any of the contents of 
this paper and assign any share I may ever have had in 
the said responsibility to the said T. £. Scrutton and I do 
hereby absolutely refuse to do any fighting ^nt tot 
kerebs S^t noiict that all literary matter of any sort 
Club notices letters are to be sent to me the said Lloyd 
and I the said Scrutton do absolutely refuse to receive any 
of the said matters and propose to instantly resign if any 
of the said matters are forced upon me 

Given in our Den at 85 Eastcheap E.G. in the City of 
London the first day of March 1883 

T. E. SOBUTTON 

A. Lloyd 
L.B.C. DRAMATIC SOCIETY, 

Prendeni : Theo. Godlee. CammiUee : Aahley Barrett, A. E. Buckler, 
G. G. Fitch, Frank JoUy, M. B. Bucker, Jan., £. T. Sachs, T. E. 
ScTJtton, and F. M. WUUams. Stofe Manager: F. W. Morru. 
Aetinp Managtr: B. M. Gruggen. Honorary Secretary: Alfred 
Barker. 

The second performance of the above Society was held 
at St. George's Hall, Langham Place, on Tuesday,* 
February 20th, when H. J. Byron's Comedy, " One 
Hundred Thousand Pounds," preceded by the Comedietta, 
"•Withered Leaves," by P. W. Broughtou, was represented 
before " a large and fashionable audience." The efforts of 
the members of the Society were much assisted by the 
charming and graceful acting of Miss Ivan Bristow and 
Miss Lucy Roche, the former especially winning all hearts ; 
while, as Mrs. Barlow in the comedy, Mrs. Hodgkinson was 
much applauded for her natural and humorous impersona- 
tion of the character. 

We append the casts in the two pieces performed, and 
some account of the evening's entertainment : — 

"ONE HUNDBED THOUSAND POUNDS." 
By H. J. Byron. 

Gkrald Goodwik E. M. Gbuooek. 

Majob Blackshaw B. T. Sachs. 

Sib Buubkt Watebs Abhlit Babrbtt. 

CHABKBB A. E. BOCELEB. 

Job Bablow H. S. Naylob. 

Pbhntthobnb Fbkd. W. Mobbib. 

Ptbpinoh A. J. Whitb. 

Mb. Flukeb CO. Fitch. 

GiBBOKs Alfbid Hbnby. 

Aliob Bablow Mias Ivak Bbistow. 

Mbs. Bablow Mas. Hodgmkboh. 


AOT I. — Scene : Parlour behind Joe Barlow's shop. 
ACT IL— Scene : A room in the house of Gerald Goodwin. 
ACT III.— Scene : Same as Act I. 
Time — The present, 

"WITHERED LEAVES," 
By F. W. Broughton. 

Sib CoNTSBa Contebb A. E. Buckler. 

Tom Coktebs B. G. Fbakoib. 

Abthub Middleton A. Babkeb. 

Cecil Vane E. H. Wileikb. 

Ladt Contebs B£l88 LUCT ROOHE. 

Mat Rxvsbs Miss Iyah Bbistow. 

The L.B.C. Orchestral Society kindly tendered their services, and 

performed the following selection of music during the evening : — 

Oyebtube '*Ia Diademe" Hermann, 

Valsb "Myosotb" LowU^ian. 

Emtb'acte " Dance de Mandolines " Burnett, 

(For Stringt ouly.) 

Lancebb "Rip Van Winkle " PlanqueUe. 

Dansb "Romaneska** Mueeat. 

Conductor — Fbakk Jollt. 

Shortly after 7.30 the curtain rose for the performance of 
" Withered Leaves," disclosing a pretty glen with a stream 
flowing at the back, crossed by a rustic bridge. Tom 
Oonyers (R. G. Francb), having some years back had a 
misunderstanding with his father. Sir Conyers Gonyers 
(A. E. Buckler), a white-headed Anglo-Indian of about 
sixty, has left his father s house, and at the time that our 
play depicts he arrives at the glen in company with his 
bosom friend, Arthur Middleton (A. Barker), who has 
before visited the neighbourhood, and on that occasion 
fallen in love with May Rivers (Miss Ivan Bristow). May, 
ignorant of Arthur's sentiments towards her, is engaged to 
Cecil Vane (E. H. Wilkins), who later on appears in his true 
character as the villain of the piece, who, whilst professing 
to be a bachelor, has in reality been married to Arthur's 
sister, and being disappointed in his hopes of acquiring with 
her a fortune, has broken her heart by coldness and neglect. 

During his estrangement from his son, Sir Conyers has 
married a young wife, and whilst on his honeymoon with the 
new Lady Conyers (Miss Lucy Roche) visits the glen. The 
conjugal affection of the baronet and his lady, and the flir- 
tations of Tom and his undiscovered step-mother, afford 
considerable amusement, which is intensified when Sir 
Conyers surprises Tom and Lady Conyers in a very com- 
promising situation. Whilst Sir Conyers and his unrevealed 
son are settling their differences, an unexpected meeting 
between Arthur and Vane discovers to May the villainy of 
her lover. He is dismissed from her presence with scathing 
contempt, and Arthur, taking this opportunity to unbosom 
his long-concealed love, takes his rival's place in her affec- 
tions. 

Sir Conyers, irritated at the flippancy with which Tom 
receives his requests for an explanation, is about to thrash 
his unknown offspring, when Lady Conyers^ makes known 
the relationship existing between them, and with the 






Digitized by Vj^OV IC 











LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 21 




reconciliation between father and son, and the approaching 
nuptials of Arthur and May, all ends most favourably. 

After some admirable music from the Orchestral Society, 
including the "lolanthe" Quadrilles, the curtain rises on 
the back room of Joe Barlow's (H. S. Naylor) grocer's shop 
in the Borough for the first act of *' One Hundred Thousand 
Pounds." 

Here Gerald Goodwin (R. M. Gruggen), having quarrelled 
with his uncle in Australia, Mr. Desborough (who has 
married again), at the commencement of our play is 
lodging. Gerald, whose shabby attire betokens the extent 
of the reduction of his finances during his vain seekings for 
employment, arrives on the scene just as Mrs. Barlow 
(Mrs. Hodgkinson) is trying to persuade Joe to get rid of 
their impecunious lodger before he gets into their debt. 

Emboldened by the admission of Alice (Miss Ivan Bristow), 
Joe Barlow's niece, that she returns his love, Gerald forgets 
his desperate circumstances, offers himself, and is accepted. 

Whilst the lovers are discussing ways and means with 
Uncle Joe, we are introduced to Pennythorne (F. W. Morris), 
a vulgar livery stable keeper, and a would-be suitor of Alice. 
Not being aware of her engagement with Goodwin, he im- 
portunes her for an answer to his suit, and is firmly but 
politely repulsed. 

Mr. Fluker (0. C. Fitch), Uncle Desborough's lawyer, 
enters in quest of Goodwin, and mistaking Pennythorne for 
the hero, informs him of the death of his uncle, and his 
succession to the hundred thousand pounds. The joy of 
the livery stable keeper at this intelligence is more easily 
imagined than described, but his raptures are brought to 
an abrupt termination by the arrival of Gerald, and the 
consequent correction of Fluker*s mistake. 

Act II. commences with some amusing passages beween 
Pyefinch, the valet of Gerald (who is now the fine gentle- 
man), and our friend Pennythorne, followed by the arrival 
of Alice, who has prevailed upon her uncle to bring her to 
view the surroundings of the man who professed to love 
her. Surprised by the unexpected return of Gerald, 
accompanied by Major Blackshaw (E. T. Sachs), she seeks 
refuge in an adjoining room. The Major, an astute com- 
pany-monger and thorough man of the world, rallies Gerald 
upon his dejected appearance, and in the course of conver- 
sation elicits from him the confession of his affection for 
Alice, and the baseness of his neglect of her since he has 
come into his wealth. The Major sneers at the idea of his 
marrying at all, much less with a girl of such lowly position, 
and suggests, as he still loves Alice and matrimony is out of 
the question, an obvious course is open to him. Gerald, 
enrageu ab me iiuerbiiiu cuuuocio oi iiis iriciiu, ocizso iiiiii uy 
the throat and demands a retraction of the objectionable 
words, and Alice, alarmed at the struggle, rushes from her 
hiding-place. The arrival of Joe in quest of his niece and 
the announcement of Sir Rumsey Waters (Ashley Barrett) 
and Charker (A. E. Buckler) further complicate the situa- 


tion. Alice is led away by her uncle more dead than alive, 
and the self-invited guests endeavour to infuse a little life 
into their crushed host. Their efforts are aided by the 
entry of Fluker with the news of arrival of the mail which 
is to confirm Gerald's inheritance of the £100,000, but he 
is almost immediately followed by Pennythorne, who relates 
in breathless eagerness that Mr. Desborough, instead of being 
dead, has himself arrived. This intelligence creates great 
sensation amongst the guests, who bitterly reproach Gerald 
with the remembrance of the sums that they have advanced 
him, and of which they now see small chance of repayment. 
The denunciations of his quondam friends are put a stop to 
by the re-entry of Alice, who has heard the news, and her 
devotion in offering her fortune to retrieve his position 
throws into darker relief the selfishness of Gerald's false 
friends. 

Act III. finds Joe and his wife iu sad distress ; for owing 
to^the failure of speculations in some of Blackshaw's swindling 
companies they find themselves ruined. Joe, believing 
that Pennythorne is sincere iu the avowal of his disinterested 
affection for Alice, persuades her to marry him, thinking 
that as Pennythorne is reported to be wealthy he will assist 
the family in tiding over their diificulties. Pennythorne, 
who is himself in the same straits, accepts Joe's advances 
with glee, thinking that Alice's fortune will put him on his 
legs again ; and hastens off to get the licence, returning to 
find the bailiffs in possession and the family plunged in 
grief. He now learns that Alice's money has also been lost 
in the general wreck, and whilst he is denouncing the whole 
family as impostors he is himself arrested for debt by the 
sheriff's officer, Gibbons (A. Henry), to the great surprise 
of the Barlows. Whilst Joe is out endeavouring to procure 
assistance, Fluker introduces Blackshaw, who is hiding from 
his creditors and is disguised as a French count, to Mrs. 
Barlow as a proposed lodger. 

Tlie end is now at hand, for the arrival of a letter from 
Uncle Desborough, informing Gerald that Uharker, who all 
along has benefited by the schemes of his dupe Blackshaw, 
has eloped with Mrs. Desborough, also holds out the wish 
of a reconciliation with his nephew. 

The further news that Charker is captured, and that he 
absolves Blackshaw from all complicity in his frauds, paves 
the way to a generally happy ending ; Gerald, restored to 
the favour of his uncle, pays Barlow's debts, and the curtain 
falls with the promise of the speedy union of Alice and 
Gerald, the happiness of the virtuous, and the usual dis- 
comfiture of the wicked. 

We have not yet heard what the financial result of the 
evening may be, but judging from the crowded state of all 
parts of the house it should be very satisfactory. The 
Society are to be congratulated on a very successful 
evening, and we trust that their subsequent performances 
(may they be many, and may we be there to see all of 
them) may all reach the high standard they have set up 
for themselves by the first and second performances at 
St. George s Hall. 




Digitized by V^OOQ IC 



22 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



NOTES FROM THE GALLERY. 

BY A CANDID FRIEND. 

I was the fortunate possessor, by purchase and not by 
gift, of a gallery ticket for St. George s Hall on the 
memorable 20th of February ; and so, Mr. Editor, I claim 
the usual privilege of an Englishman to grumble at any- 
thing and everything, more especially as in secret I may 
confess that I spent a very enjoyable evening. 

All the same, Sir, I don't consider " Withered Leaves " a 
success. I think the " withering" had gone a stage too far, 
and I am sorry it went on to a stage so near me. I don't 
know who was responsible for the choice of the play, and I 
do know how difficult it is to choose a good opening piece, 
but still the one chosen struck me as a poor play in itself, 
and especially unsuited to an amateur company owing to 
its long dialogues, enlivened by very little incident. 

Then, Sir, I could hardly hear anything at first till 
the actors got used to the iiall. Francis and Barker looked 
very nice, but I don't know what they were taking about — 
I certainly did hear the prompter once or twice. I thought, 
however, the whole cast, especially Francis and Buckler, 
did their best to enliven a very ungrateful piece, and 
Wilkins made the most of a difficult part. 

I thought we were going to have some fun once, when 
there seemed every prospect of a fight between Barker and 
Wilkins ; but that dash which the S.E. knows so well 
seemed to have been left in the S.E. for the night. 

Now, Sir, my grumbling is over. The piece of the evening 
struck me as more of a success even than ''Cjnril's Success." 
It went admirably throughout, the first act especially so, 
and the care taken in rehearsals was fully rewarded. 

The L.B.C. is indeed fortunate in possessing four such 
actors as Morris, Fitch, Naylor and Sachs. Of course, I 
am nothing if not critical, and the first two of those gentle- 
men will pardon my humbly suggesting a possible danger 
of over-acting on their part. Each of them struck me as a 
shade too noisy : I don't think Fennythorne was meant to 
be quite so vulgar, or Mr. Fluker to be quite so much of a 
windmill ; having said which, I have nothing but praise for 
them. Their admirable playing together in the first act, 
notably the very eflFective entrance of Mr. Fluker and 



Penn3rthorne's outburst of joy on hearing of his supposed 
windfall were very fine pieces of acting, and their scenes 
with the Count Grawbowski (?) in the last act were highly 
amusing. 

Naylor's impersonation of Mr. Barlow struck me as the 
feature of the piece ; characteristic without being overdone, 
and with the most made of a very expressive face. His 
quiet retort on Mrs. Barlow — "If my hair is rough, at 
least it*s my own," was most effective. A. F. White as the 
footman was also good, and Henry's make up as the bailiff 
brought down the house. One of the best pieces of acting 
in the play was Sach's rendering of Major Blackshaw, under 
difficulties. Gerald Goodwin nearly knocked him off his chair 
by an unexpected and dashing flank attack ; and then — 
that cigarette ! — I do hear tales about that cigarette, but 
of course I'd cut my tongue out sooner than divulge them. 

As to Gerald Goodwin himself, I confess I can't imagine 
his being very attractive at any time ; but I think Gruggen 
made him as attractive as possible, even at a sacrifice of 
dramatic effect. 

A young lady near me was longing for the entrance of 
the interesting hero in rags and tatters in the first act, but 
was much disappointed when R. M. G. appeared, certainly 
looking as if he hadn't had an3rthing to eat for a fortnight, 
but otherwise scrupulously well dressed. However, we 
waited with impatience to behold him as the " complete 
masher " in the second act ; but even those scenes of 
reckless revehry, and unlimited zoedone with the labels 
carefully turned away from the audience did not rouse 
Gerald much until he went at Blackshaw with a vigour 
which would have done credit to the gamest bantam cock. 

However, this is the groundless jealousy of the male 
mind, for I am sure the feminine half of the audience were 

Goodwinites to a woman ; and, indeed, one confessed to 

me that she thought Mr. Gruggen looked " very interesting." 

Finally, I think that the Committee, the Society, the 
actors, and the Club are very much to be congratulated on 
their efforts. A very successful evening was certainly the 
result, and the ringing applause of the crowded house 
was a fit termination to the second performance of the 
L.B.C. Dramatic Society. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. N.E. 


N.W. 


w. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.£. 

Blackheath Division. 


1^ r Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
"2 J wad Sybom'g Comer 
§ 8.45, for Ohiowkll. 
S 1 ("King's Head.") 


"Jack Straw's Cas- 
tie " 8.45, & TaUy 
Ho 1 Comer 4.80, 
for Shenlet. 


Savernake Cottage, 
Mill HiU Road, 
Acton, 4.0, for 
SUNBUBY. (•* The 
Magpie.") Meet 

s.w. 


Elingston Station, 
4.16, for SUNBUBY. 
("The Magpie.") 
Meet W. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Obpinoton. Meet 
Blackheath Biv. 


4.15, Old Lewisham 
Church f or Obpinq- 
TOH. Meet Croy- 
don Div. 


^ Tliea Bridge Rd. 3.30, 
2 J and Syboni*8 Comer 
§ ^ 8.45, for 




Savernake Cottage, 
MiU HiU lioad, 
Acton, 4.0, for 
Habbow. ("King's 
Anns.") 


Kingston Station, 

4.15, for ClBODLAB 

Bun. TeaatCHOB- 

HAH. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, or 
GODBTONE. Meet 
Blackheath Div. 


3.45, Old Lewisham 
Church for God- 
BTONE. Meet Croy. 
don Div. 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



23 



OUK FRANCO-SWISS TOUR OF 1882. 

It has loDg been the opinion of those best qualified to 
give advice on the subject, " that if you have a story to 
tell, the most approved method is to begin at the begin- 
ning." In our case we find considerable difficulty in 
following this time-honoured usage, inasmuch as our expe- 
dition can hardly be said to have had a definite commence- 
ment, our start bearing more resemblance to a cunningly 
contrived handicap than anything else. Langmore, the 
limit man, having time at his disposal, set out a couple of 
days ahead of us, intending to proceed by easy stages until 
we overtook him ; whilst on the other hand Buckler left 
town a day later than the main body. Whilst the last- 
named is hastening on his way to form a junction with 
the early starters, we will give a short account of the con- 
struction and aims of our expedition. 

Our party consisted of the convenient number of four, 
viz., Dr. Langmore, N. B. Morris, W. J. Williams, and 
A. E. Buckler (the three last being survivors of the 
Pyrenean five of 1879). Morris, who had been over the 
ground before, fulfilled the duties of captain and guide, 
and also kept the bag. Our intention was to devote a week 
to the ride across France, from Dieppe to N^uch&tel, in 
which time we hoped, by the aid of a judicious piece of 
training through some of the least interesting country, to 
reach our Swiss cruising ground ; the following fortnight 
to be devoted to a round through Western and Northern 
Switzerland, finishing with the Oberland. 

While dealing with these introductory remarks, it may 
be as well to say that we took our cycles to Switzerland 
not with a view of doing any great distances or other feats 
worth recording as bicycling, but solely for the purpose of 
enabling us to get about from place to place ; just as, 
without their assistance, we should have made use of dili- 
gences and hired carriages for the transport of ourselves 
and baggage. 

A few words on the weather and the roads, and we shall 
be ready to start on our travels. It was our fate not only 
to follow the disastrous weather so prevalent on the Con- 
tinent during the autumn, but also to have a large share of 
it for a travelling companion, so that in common fairness 
we roust say that our experience of the roads was an 
exceptional one. Leaving out the almost perfect roads of 
Normandy, we rode mostly over wet and greasy limestone, 
worthy of Derbyshire. Sometimes we got a piece of dry 
riding, but generally the surface was so completely removed 
by the heavy rains, that after a few miles of what our 
medico pithily, if not^ politely, described as " blisters and 
blasphemy/' we wished ourselves back again at the less 
painful mud-ploughing. 

Morris and Williams left London on the night of the 
15th September, and after a calm and uneventful passage 
landed at Dieppe the following morning. The route to 
Rouen has been travelled by too many members of the 



L.B.G. to make any description here needful Pouring rain 
and heavy roads were our first experiences, a fitting intro- 
duction, as it afterwards proved. Nearing Rouen the 
steam trams are a great nuisance. At their passing places 
they take up nearly all the road, and threaten to Juggernaut 
the cyclist as they swing rapidly round the severe curves. 
The bleating of the penny trumpets, used instead of whistles, 
is rather comical. Distance to Rouen, 37 miles. 

Here we tried the B.T.O. hotel—" Hotel de Commerce," 
but did not find it a first-class house. We were pleased to 
find a note from our truant doctor. It is very nice to 
have a medical man with your party," said our friends at 
home—" So useful in case of accidents." So we thought 
when we found that the doctor was two days ahead and 
steadily ploughing along. The following day (Sunday) 
was pleasantly spent in a visit to the Cathedral, the fine 
church of St. Ouen, and the many places of interest in this 
city so closely connected with the annals of our own 
country. 

Monday morning saw the three of us (for Buckler had 
joined company the preceding day) on our way in fair time. 
Everything was charming — bright sunshine and fine country, 
resembling in its wooded coombes Dorset or Devonahire, 
whilst every now and then, as our route followed the ever- 
winding Seine, we were reminded of some of the happiest 
pieces of Thames scenery. 

Near the hundredth kilo stone from Paris there is a nasty 
piece of bad pavS over a bridge at the bottom of a steep hill ; 
but thanks to information received from L., we were on the 
look out. We were not so lucky with a wretched gully half- 
way down another hill, for forgetting our warning until too 
late, we had an anxious half second, but fortunately escaped 
with a severe shaking. After this little excitement we kept 
a bright look out, and avoided like pitfalls in future. 
Dejeuner at Gaillon (26^) good. 

The afternoon turning out badly — ^rain with tropical fury 
for Ja time followed by a steady downpour — we were not 
sorry to reach Mantes (49 — " Hotel Cheval Blanc") We now 
reaped the advantages of our comprehensive wardrobes, for 
all carried plenty of baggage (about 15 lbs. apiece). The 
extra weight is no doubt a drawback, but we think the 
luxury of a complete change, including trousers, slippers, 
and a tweed hat for the sun or for use when not riding, 
amply repays the additional labour in transport. 

The next morning, affairsnot looking particularly pleasing, 
we trained into Paris, and oul again the other side as far as 
Melun, to avoid our bete noir the pav4. Just as we were 
starting after lunch, ("Hotel St. Nicolas"), down came the 
rain again ; we seemed in good quarters, and there was no 
need to hurry. It ended in our staying. For sometime we 
were quite contented with our lot, and contrived to make 
ourselves very comfortable. The dinner deserves a special 
mention ; it was a masterpiece, even in this land of cordons 
bletis. The company were all townspeople, and interested 



Digitized by 



24 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



us as much as our presence did them. Better hands at the 
trenches we never saw, and though we tried hard to uphold 
the honour of our country, only succeeded in making 
ourselves uncomfortable. 

Melun is celebrated as the earthly resting place of those 
French kings whose reputation was not sweet enough to 
admit of their interment at St. Denis. It is also renowned 
for its b — flats, alas ! unburied during our stay. But we 
are anticipating. The three of us were housed for the 
night in a rough tiled room over the kitchen. Lights were 
extinguished, and we tried to sleep, but sundry irritations 
prevented that wished-for result. Suddenly the Capitaine 
jumped out of bed, exclaiming " I can't stand this any 
longer ! " and struck a light. A cry of horror ensued, which 
brought the N.W. official to his aid. A scene was disclosed 

which caused language " ." The invading army was 

establishing itself in force, swarming over the pillow in 
skirmishing order. The S.W. D.C. brought up the Gatling 
gun and discharged a heavy fire of Keating, which rather 
disconcerted the hungry punaises, who scuttled off as fast as 
possible. Although worsted for the moment, they held the 
position too strongly to be dislodged, and " M. le Capitaine 
was forced to find other quarters in one of the adjacent 
beds. 

The next morning an early start was made to make up 
for lost time, but our enemy the rain gave us no peace, and 
by the time we reached Montereau (20) we were pretty wet. 
A halt to admit of the weather clearing formed an excuse 
for dejeuner, but matters became worse instead of better, 
and the afternoon turned out the proverbial "cats and 
dogs." This was an opportunity not to be missed. We 
now knew we must avail ourselves considerably of the rail- 
way if we were to reach Switzerland by the end of the week, 
even if the weather improved. So we put on dry things, 
made for the station, booked straight away for Dijon, and, 
snugly ensconced in a comfortable carriage, smiled beamingly 
as the rain beat against the windows. Dijon, " Hotel de 
Bourgogne," good. 

As we were now ahead of our programme, there was no 
need to hurry off the next morning. Starting, we ran to 
Ddle (30 miles), and spent the rest of the day exploring 
that town (" Hotel de Geneve," rather expensive). Weather 
still unsettled and rainy. Friday morning was pouring wet. 
We waited some time for it to clear, and then gave up hope 
and started. Presently it gave over for awhile, but the 
improvement was only temporary, and before long it was 
coming down with its usual monotony. Near Mouchard we 
had a fine pig hunt. The victim was just such a specimen 
as one sees at Islington shortly before Christmas. He ran 
well and straight, keeping up his spurt until he arrived at 
his own farmyard (about a mile), and never was piggy more 
thankful to bolt into his sty than our poor blown porker. 

By the time Salins was reached we were amongst the 
Jura range, and were well satisfied with the foretaste of 



the scenery to be expected further on. From Salins the 
road mounts up tremendously ; the hill out of the town — 
5 miles long by the kilo stones — is a great grind. Darkness 
overtook us in a dense pine forest some way short of 
Levier (40^). Arriving at the village in the darkness, we 
were not particularly pleased with its appearance, and 
almost despaired of procuring quarters for the night. But 
after one vain attempt at a wretched looking auberge we 
unexpectedly obtained even luxurious accommodation, and, 
contrary to our former experiences of village auberges, not 
only fared well but slept comfortably. Levier is about 
2500 feet above sea level, and it was bitterly cold. We had 
no doubt missed seeing some fine scenery to-day owing to 
the mist and rain. 

The next day, Saturday, we rode through Pontarlier and 
by the lovely Val de Travers to Neuch4tel (47). After the 
experiences of M. and W. in Italy two years ago, we had 
been expecting some difficulty with the frontier Customs, 
but to our surprise we were permitted to sail past both the 
French and Swiss douanes without hindrance. 

We were quite delighted to be at last in Switzerland, 
and one of our party who is contemplating an early sur- 
render of his personal freedom went to the extravagance of 
announcing the fact by wire. This was, although by no 
means a fine one, the first day without rain since we started. 

At NeuchAtel we stayed at the Belle Vue/' pleasantly 
situated at the edge of the lake, which we found a superior 
hotel in all respects, charges included. 

Sunday was everything that could be desired, brilliant 
sunshine all day. M. and W. went in search of the English 
Church, whilst B. went to the native one. At the latter 
the service (reformed) was in French, and our representative 
not being very au fait in the language, could not make 
much out of it. By his own account the portion that he 
understood most about was the finish of the sermon, which 
wound up with allez-vaus-en, followed immediately by a 
general stampede. 

In the evening, to our great satisfaction, (for we were 
uneasy at not having heard of him), the Doctor arrived. 
He had pluckily ridden the entire distance from Diei)pe, 
by himself, through wretched weather and over awful roads. 

The next morning saw our small column en route for 
Lucerne. Our journey that day was to Olten (57). The 
road at first ran close alongside the lakes of Neuch&tel and 
Bienne. After passing through the town of the latter 
name wet traversed for the most part a wide fertile valley, 
with pretty if not striking views on either hand. As we 
neared our destination, the horizon clearing — as it often 
does towards evening — disclosed on our right a grand 
prospect of big snow mountains all aglow with the rays of 
the setting sun. 

Near Neuch&tel there resides a "tyke" — a great big 
smooth-haired brute— just such an animal that you hesitate 
to say a disrespectful word to — at least, unless you are on 



Digitized by Vj^^^ie 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



25 



the other side of a six-foot wall, with many glass bottles on 
top. This dog may be an exemplary husband and a fond 
father, but he certainly was not at all polite to Williams, for 
he ran alongside him and tried to pull him off by the leg. 
Although sympathising very much with the troubles of W., 
who we thought must every moment succumb to the fierce 
onslaught of the enemy, and thinking that our turn would 
come next, we oould not avoid smiling at the ridiculousness 
of the situation : W. riding with one leg pointing nearly 
to the zenith, whilst the dog, disappointed of his prey, made 
frantic springs at the elevated beaux mallets, the envy of 
the French belles from the Channel to the Mediterranean. 
We are, however, fortunately spared the paiu of chronicling 
the catastrophe that seemed imminent, for the " tyke " was 
by this time too winded to continue the chase, and to our 
joy suffered the rest of us to pass unmolested. 

We lunched sumptuously at Soleure ; and, just as we 
were beginning to find out that many veal cutlets induce 
much laziness, in came the patron to say that two local 
bicyclists would esteem it an honour if we would allow them 
to accompany us a short distance. Of course we acquiesced, 
and after a little conversation the six of us rode off, much 
to the delight of the townspeople, who lined the streets and 
windows to see the show. Our new companions were ex- 
cellently mounted on a light "D.H.F." and "Arab" res- 
pectively, so that with our heavy luggage and our morning's 
ride of some five and thirty miles, we rather dreaded the 
result should they force the pace. The unwished for always 
happens, so there was no alternative but to do our best* 
The doctor, whose digestive organs had raced ours in the 
difficult task of getting the better of our too recent repast, 
took the lead ; whilst our Bath Medallist, riding quietly in 
the rear, in reserve, endeavoured to assimilate into his sys- 
tem the weight that pressed so heavily on his chest. The 
subtlety of of our strategy was soon apparent, for after a few 
miles W. went to the front, and, although the rider of the 
"Arab" put down his head and made several mad rushes, he 
succeeded in forging ahead. Soon after this the strongest 
rider of our Swiss friends suggested that it was time for 
them to return ; so, after an adjournment to drink " bon 
voyage," we separated, well pleased with our new ac- 
quaintances and the afternoon's diversions. Hotel at 
Olteu, " The Schweizerhof," good and moderate. 

The following day we were early astir, but as usual did 
not get off until later than we intended. The distance 
being short (33} miles) we contemplated getting into 
Lucerne by midday. The road for a short distance runs 
alongside the swiftly-rushing Aar, and then for awhile 
passes through a rather tame agricultural country ; but 
before the old town of Sursee is reached, on mounting a 
ridge a change comes over the spirit of the scene. Close to 
us is the pretty lake of Sempach, with the neighbouring 
hills, trees and ch&lets, reflected on its placed blue surface ; 
whilst in the distance the mountain peaks, rising like grim 



giants, tell us that we have reached our goal. Those of us 
who have not seen these wonders before are delighted with 
our first view of the Rigi and Pilatus, the latter sparkling 
in its mantle of snow. Again we have to record a cauine 
episode. A beast of a dog rushed out of a farmyard full 
tilt at Morris. Into the wheel he banged ; down came the 
crank on his uplifted jaws, and then the back wheel did its 
little best to complete the discomfiture of the brute. 
Luckily M. was going fast, and the momentum of the 
machine and baggage saved what might have been a serious 
accident. The next time this dog contemplates lunching 
on cyclists' legs he will doubtlessly show more science in 
his mode of attack. 

Arriving at Lucerne we put up at the " Hotel Schwann " 
on the Schweizerhof Quay (recommended). Having still 
the afternoon before us, we sallied out to see the Lion, and 
other wonders of this most interesting town. We spent 
some time watching the drilling of the fire brigade. It is 
to be hoped that fires are not very prevalent, as, unless the 
men are a little smarter in action than in practice, the 
flames must have it pretty much their own way. The 
tactics of a big fat man amused us mucK Each time the 
order was given to clear for action, he seized the spare nozzle 
piece, (a puny thing in his big grasp), and retreated to a 
quiet corner, with his burden at attention, only returning, 
(mopping his face as if he had been doing all the work), 
when everything was over and the gear stowed away again. 
In the evening we went to the Cathedral to hear the big 
organ, and spent a chilly hour in semi-darkness. The 
musical members of our party were rather disappointed ; 
while the uninitiated thought the performance very grand. 
They told us at the hotel that most likely the instrument 
was pUyed by a pupil of the organist ; this would account 
for the verdict of our learned ones. 

Wednesday, we spent on the lake ; staying for an hour 
or two at Fluellen. The boats are very good, and amid the 
magnificent scenery our day was very pleasantly spent. On 
the return journey we landed at Vitznau, and after inspect- 
ing the railway started to .walk up the Rigi, to spend the 
night on the summit. The rain, which we had almost for- 
gotten, the last few days having been so lovely, came down 
heavily soon after we commenced the ascent, and before we 
reached the top we were beautifully moist. In addition to 
other discomforts; in the early darkness we had some diffi- 
culty in groping our way to the Rigi Eulm Hotel, and when 
we arrived things were not very cheering. It was bitterly 
cold, our clothes were very wet, and we had imprudently 
omitted to bring anything with us except our sleeping 
tackle. The vast hotel, all but empty, was most dismal, 
and the attention, (we suppose the lateness of the season in 
some measure accounts for this), most indifferent. After 
dinner, despairing of getting warm by any external method, 
for the comfortless German stove was but a poor apology 
for a fire, we consumed (what was called) whisky and 



Digitized by VjU^O^IC 



26 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



chartreuse vert until we began to take a more hopeful 
view of things in general. We retired to roost early, in 
order that we might be ready for the sunrise. But the 
sunrise was distinctly a failure. We turned out of bed, 
but one glance was sufficient. It was snowing heavily, and 
the view might easily have been measured with a yard 
measure, or even a foot rule. In a twinkling we were back 
again snugly in bed, with only our noses exposed to the 
extremely bracing atmosphere. About midday we started 
on the walk down to Weggis, and the weather clearing we 
were rewarded with some fine views. Returning to 
Lucerne, we spent the afternoon examining the quaint 
pictures in the covered bridges. 

It rained all night, and when we got up the next morning 
was still coming down, but fortunately gave over by the 
time we were ready to start. We skirted the lake as far as 
Alpnach, a pretty ride, and we daresay good going in fine 
weather ; but we suffered some miles of sticky limestone 
mud in patience. It fairly beat record, and we had sampled 
some good specimens lately. After a time Sarnen is reached, 
and the road again takes to the water, running in close 
proximity to the beautiful lake (Sarnen) until the ascent to 
Lungern commences. Near here we were the innocent 
cause of a little diversion. Williams and the doctor riding 
some distance ahead of the other two, fell in with a man 
driving some cattle ; a fine cow, frightened at the cycles, 
kicked up her heels and bolted ; the man hung on to her 
horns, endeavouring to stop the skittish female, but it was 
only after he had lost his hat, broken his stick over her 
head, and uttered manystrange oaths in an unknown tongue, 
that he succeeded in his efforts. Some little time afterwards, 
N. and B., quite unaware of this little performance, met the 
same pair. The result was almost identical, the unfortunate 
man again being dragged at express speed up the mountain 
slope. We lunched at Lungern, and immediately on leaving 
commenced the ascent of the Briinig. The road rises in 
long windings through a thick wood : the gradient is not 
steep, and the ascent from the village is not more than three 
and a half miles. We considered it child's play compared 
with some of the passes we negotiated in the Pyrenees; (the 
Tourmalet, for instance, was eleven miles to the summit, 
nearly 7000 feet, and pretty stiff the entire distance). We 
were able to mount some distance before the top (3396 feet) 
was reached, and rode for some way down the other side, 
until the brakes so punished our wrists that we were 
compelled to walk most of the remainder of the descent. At 
the bottom we doubled back up the valley to Meiringen 
(37i). It had been raining nearly all the afternoon, and 
we were completely saturated by the time we reached the 
" Hotel Sauvage," (very good). 

Before leaving the next morning, we paid a visit to the 
Alpbach and Reichenbach falls, which, owing to the wet 
weather, we saw at their best ; though, owing to the height 
of the neighbouring clififs, it was difficult to realise their 



true size. Resuming our journey, we ran down the valley 
to Brientz. Across the lake we had a distant view of the 
Giessbach, but had no time to visit that celebrated fall. 
From Brientz to Interlaken the road runs along the 
northern shore of the lake, and the ride was most interesting 
and enjoyable. The doctor amused us by coming to a 
standstill whilst crawling behind a drove of our friends the 
cows ; a friendly wall saving him from falling, and the 
whole performance looked so premeditated that the un- 
initiated thought our friend was doing a little "fancy" for 
their amusement. We were much tempted at Interlaken 
by the fine display of shops. Fortunately for our exchequer 
we had no means of conveying any of the pretty things so 
enticingly displayed, but contented ourselves with adding a 
good many capital photos to our collection. On the windows 
of a pharmacy we discovered a most unique specimen of 
literal translation. It informed the passer-by that mineral 
waters were kept there " from the most usited sources." 

Interlaken is a favourite and fashionable resort in the 
summer time, but at this advanced season (30th September) 
it was all but empty. The view, looking south from the 
Hoheweg, of the Lauterbrunnen Valley and the Jungfrau, 
is most grand. It was here that we afterwards found that 
the loccJ paper devoted its attention to us. The notice 
ran very much like this : — " Tliere arrived here to-day 
four English gentlemen who are travelling through Europe 
with their velocipedes. They did not appear at aU fatigued, 
and after lunch proceeded on their journey to Grindelwald." 

The Grindelwald road follows the valley fsave the mark) 
of the Schwarze Lutschine. The rise in tne 121 miles is 
1600 feet. The gradients are trifling at first, heavy for 
some miles, and then ease oGf again before Grindelwald 
(3,468 feet) is reached. We think that Mr. Cobb, in 
suggesting the possibility of this stage being covered in the 
saadle, rather over-estimates the enduring powers of a 
rider. Our opinion is — and one of us tried it — that 
the piece below Burglauenen, where the road zigzags 
backwards and forwards across the gorge four times in a 
short distance, would give most riders the catip de grace. 
We had to walk a considerable portion of the ascent, but 
could no doubt have ridden more had the mud been less 
intense, and our luggage anywhere but where it was. 

Arriving at our destination (33 miles, counting an error 
in our road out of Interlaken), we made for the " Hotel de 
L'Ours," and never before, as will be seen presently, did we 
fall so completely on our feet. Grindelwald lying as it does 
at the foot of the Eiger, Mettenburg, and Wetterhorn, is 
one of the most favourite starting places for mountain excur- 
sions, and although it was not our intention to go in for 
any real climbing, there are the glaciei*s and many other 
expeditions of great interest to which a few days can be 
well devoted, so we contemplated staying here for some 
little time. This being the anniversary of an eventful day 
on which one of our party was hatched, we celebrated the 
festival at dinner in Swiss champagne, which we can recom- 
mend. Presently we were further cheered by the arrival of 
two Gazettes, and by a curious coincidence they contained 
Mr. Cobb*s account of the route we had been following. 

A. E. B. 

(To be continued.) 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



27 



THE C.U.BI.C. 

Perhaps it may interest readers of the Gazbtte, paii;ica- 
larly those who have the pleasure of knowing our ex-uaptain 
G. 1). Day, to hear that on Wednesday last (February 21st) 
he kindly invited the Club to come over to St. Ives to have 
tea at his house. 

We were favoured with perfect weather overhead, but 
the roads were too heavy to admit of a large muster. 
Three miles out, nearly opposite Girton, the Captain 
snapped his treadle-pin and fell, involving another member 
in his ruin. The wind and road making it impossible to 
ride with one leg, he left the Club without a shepherd, 
and executed a weary tramp to Fenstanton (7 miles), 
where another treadle was awaiting him. Day was met 
at about half distance and piloted the Club to his house, 
where we enjoyed a luxurious tea and a long and very 
pleasant talk afterwards. A little before eight the moon 
was reported to be in working order, and the Club lit up 
and effected a start, accompanied by Day as far as Fen- 
stanton. A strong wind behind, and the glorious full moon, 
made the run home a great contrast to the outward journey, 
especially to the Captain. There were present E. H. Brown, 
L. 0. Carr, W. H. Fox, G. N. Latham, A. W. Rumney, 
A. B. W. Whatton, and J. S. Whatton, Captain. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 

Under this head the Editors have asked me to give, 
shortly and sweetly, the latest and most startling infor- 
mation on the topics of the day outside our Club, for the 
education of our members in •'cyclo-political" mysteries 
and the providing of copy for the Gazette. 

The B.T.C. is dead— Long live the Cvclists' Touring 
Club. I hear sub rosd that the poll of the Club has 
resulted in a change of name by a majority of two to one. 
It is notable that only half the members of the Club, i.e,, 
3000, took the trouble to return their voting papers. 

I also hear that the Club have taken central offices in 
London. This is a step which, in view of the mass of 
metropolitan members and the central position of London, 
was bound to come. 

The next Council Meeting of the B.U. is fixed for 
Thursday, 8th of March. The place is that fixed for our 
Smoking Concert, the " City Arms," in St. Mary Axe. 
Except that the Officers and Executive for the year are to 
be elected at this meeting there is nothing very striking on 
the agenda. Mr. Todd's name appears for the first time 
as Honorary Secretary. 

I am sure that the Council of the Union will express in 
some suitable way their sense of Mr. English's work as 
secretary. I know no njan who works more and talks less 
than Mr. English, and that class of man ought to receive 
the utmost encouragement. 

The Executive Report contains the information that the 
Championships for the year are fixed as follows :— 
5 MUes Bicycle and 1 MUe Tricjcle ... 80th Jnne or 7th July, at 

Birmmgham. 

1 Mile Bicycle and 10 Miles Tricycle .. 14th July, at Crystal Palace 

50 Miles Bicycle 2l8t July, at Crystal Palace 

25 Miles Bicyde Date to be fixed, at Cam- 

bridge. 

6. P. Coleman, of ours, was re-elected Union Handicapper 
for London and the South at the last Council Meeting. I 
am glad to hear that he is already nearly overwhelmed 
with Easter handicaps. The Fboitt Wheel Hub. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioscorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. BaowKB. 

«••••• 

" tempora, mores." A quotation which has the 
great advantage of admitting of any interpretation that 
the reader chooses to give it. In this instance it signifies 
that time and the manners of the L.B.C. have brought 
about the usual annual change in the personality of the 
irresponsible and anonymous author of this column. 

The present writer feels it a great honour to succeed 
such celebrities as "Eavesdropper," "The Man with the 
Muck Rake," " Rambler," and the other great men of the 
past, and he trusts that, as in their case, so he may be 
allowed the usual licence in his Club jokes and his Club 
scandal. That licence is always tolerated by the Club 
good temper, and will, he hopes, always be restrained 
within due limits by the Club good feeling. 

It is true I am anonymous, and therefore irresponsible to 
the Club. The Editors however permit me to say that 
they accept fully the responsibility for anything appearing 
in these columns. (See the " Editorial Declaration.' — Edd.) 

For our mathematical men. How many members of the 
L.B.C. make an L.B.C. orchestra ? 

It is not true that the Orchestral Society will perform a 
fantasia on that well-known air, " For he s a Jollt/ good 
fellow," by the full strength of the Company at the 
approaching Smoking Concert 

Aforesaid Smoking Concert will commence at 7.30, not 
7.0, as previously stated. 

♦ «♦♦♦• 

So great was the demand for tickets at the Dramatic 
Performance that I should advise members to apply at once, 
or thev will find they are too late, as the numbers are 
limitea. 

• ••••• 

"Very fine. N.W. to N. strong gales" is to be the 
weather on May 14 (Bath Day, as the ex-Editor termed it) ; 
at least so it appears from a book of weather forecasts 
lately published. 

H. R. Reynolds, B. A., has passed the Intermediate Exam, 
of the Incorporated Law Society. 

The Yorke Priae, awarded annually to a graduate for 
the best essay upon some subject relating to the " Law of 
Property : its Principles and Historv in Various Ages and 
Countries," has been awarded to T. R Scrutton, B.A., 
Trinity College, Cambridge. 

It was excessively cniel on Barker, after he had — with an 
eve to realism in his character of riparian masher — ransacked 
the City for the most approved shape of tile, for a charming 
young lady in the audience to say sweetly, " Oh that I could 
have that hat for a few moments, I should so like to sit upon 
it!'' 

The occupants of the boxes and front rows of the stalls 
say that the success of " Withered Leaves" depended to a 
great extent upon the indefatigable exertions of Mr. Sparkes. 



Google 



Digitized by 



28 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



(N.B. Mr. Sparkes was the prompter.) The majority how- 
ever plump for Miss Boache and charming Miss Bristow. 

• • • . « • • 

In pleasant anticipation of being elected Acting Manager 
for the next Dramatic " Show/' Gruggen has ordered to 
be painted a huge board, six feet by two, with the legend, 

"KO STAHDINa ROOM IN THE BALCONY." 

It will be* wanted. 

• «♦••• 

One of our charming actresses remarked to me after her 
first acquaintance with an L.B.C. house, " What a kind, 
sympathetic audience." I confirmed her opinion, adding, 
that they came intending to be amused, and not to get their 
money's worth. 

• • * « * « 

All who did not hear Mr. Button sing " Oft in the stilly 
night " at our Annual Dinner should make sure of hearing 
him at the Smoking Concert. There will be no reason to 
press those who did hear him — tliey are sure to come. 
««••«« 

The Concert Sub-Committee have every reason to be 
gratified with the way in which members have come 
forward to enable them to make up a good programme. 
Nearly all the well-known performers who have so often 
made the success of our musical evenings will again appear, 
together with much new talent. 

• •«•♦• 

Here endeth the first shedding of quills by the 

Porcupine. 



(SioxxtBpoxtbtntt. 
ATTENDANCES AT RUNS. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — The many difficulties which have arisen from time to 
time in construing the regulations with reference to the atten- 
dance prizes have led the Committee to appoint a small 
Sub-Committee to revise these regulations in such a way as 
to remove these difficulties, and further to draw up a few 
rules which may enable the District Captains to araw up 
their reports upon a uniform basis, ana thus render the 
various reports in future an accurate record of the relative 
attendances in the diiFerent districts. I shall therefore be 
obliged if all present ^nd past D.C.s will forward me, for 
the guidance of the Sub-Comnaittee, with as little delay as 
possible, a note of any difficulties which may occur to tnem 
in the meaning of the attendance regulations, and also a 
note of the method on which they have habitually calcu- 
lated, if they have ever done so, the average and other 
attendances published in the Blue Book. — Tours truly, 

Walthamstow. Theo. Godlee. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — Allow me, on behalf of the Dramatic Society, to 
thank those members who so conduced to the success of 
our performance (February 20th) by their efforts and 
cordial support, thanks being specially due to the 
Orchestral Society and the stewards. 

I would also request members to remit me as soon as 
possible for their tickets, to enable me to close the 
accounts. — I am, dear sir, yours truly, 

Alf. Barker, 
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer Dramatic Society. 



MARCH VALENTINES. 

1. To Racing Men, 

Sunt quos curriculo pulverem Olympicum 

Collogisse juvat, metaque fervidis 

Evitata rotis, palmaque nobilis. {Horace,) 

2. To the New Tricycle UnioiK 

. Comment, disaient-ils, 
Eviter querelles, 
Mis^re, et perils ? 
Bormez, disaient-elles. 

{Victor Hugo.) 

3. Cortis in the Twenty Miles Match. 

oxnroT avtfis aAAa vvv mnxrmTDV. 

{Euripides.) 

4. To Mr. John Brotoning. 

Hie ames dici pater atque princeps. {Horace.) 

6. To Riders who want Admission to the Parks. 
Ccelum ipsum petimus stultitia, neque 
Per nostrum patimur scelus ^ 
Iracunda Jovem ponere fulmina. {Horace.) 

6. To the Suspended A mateurs. 

Methinks false hearts should never have stout legs. 

{Shakes^re.) 

1. To Mr. H. H. Sherrif. 

Quid quisque vitet, nunquam homini satis 
Cautum est in horas ; navita Bosporum 
Poenus perhorrescit neque ultra 
C»ca timet aliunde fata ; 
Miles sagittas, etc. {Horace,) 

8. To the Writer when Leading a recent Club Run. 

Procumbit humi Boss. { Virgil.) 

J. S. W, 



Change of Address. — Arthur H. Rolls, Juu., Hampden 
Mount, Caterham Valley, Surrey. 



H. L. Ryan intends riding down to Bath from London at 
Easter for the annual Easter Monday run, and would be glad 
to hear of a companion. An early reply will greatly oblige. 



Lost, a Silver Bracelet, at the Dramatic Performance 
at St. George's Hall. If found, kindly forward it to 
Messrs. Darhng's, 35, Eastcheap, E.C. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 

All contribntionB miiflt be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and must be received not later than Tuesday, the 27th Mar., 
at 5 p.m. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling Sl Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Eastcheap, London, E.C— March 1, 1388. 



Digitized by 



An Official Rkcobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 4.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS* 
[AU rights rMerr^] 



HALL. 



March 29, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



FAOB 

Club Ram: their Hiitory and their LesBon 29 

Committee 80 

Subscriptions — Importftnt 80 

Saturday Runs 80 

Club Meets 81 

Bicycling in Switzerland 82 

Exchange List 35 

Smoking Concert 86 



Disclaimer 

Another March Valentine 

Racing Fizturee , 

Our Franco-Swiss Tour of 1882.. 

All Round the Wheel 

Correspondence 

Quills « 

Notices 



FAOB 
.. 8« 
.. 86 
37 
37 
.. 38 
.. 89 
.. 89 
.. 40 



Tks next Gazette will be published on Thursday, 6th 
April, and will then appear weekly. Copy should be 
sent in not later than 6 p.m. on Tuesday, the 3rd. 

CLUB RUNS; THEIR HISTORY AND THEIR 
LESSON. 

It is appropriate to rentilate this subject at the time of 
issuing our first Meet Card for the present year, and in 
order to drive more fully home to backsliders the admonition 
with which we conclude, the latter shall be preceded by a 
few remarks on "The Natural History of Club Runs." 
Even in the dark ages, before the appearance of our 
Gazette, Club Runs existed (as may be gathered from 
fragmentary notices in contemporary papers), taking their 
rise, perchance, in that tendency of the early wheelmen to 
band themselves together for defence against the roughs 
and dogs of the period — their common foes. Some such 
idea at any rate, coupled with the desire for companionship, 
must have brought scattered riders together before they 
aggregated into clubs. The leading spirits in the latter 
soon found in the Saturday Run a valuable means of sus- 
taining esprit de corps, and, enlightened as we may claim 
to be by the experience of past years, we can boldly assert 
that without its Club Runs the healthy life of a club must 
depart. The chance is then afforded of meeting distant 
friends and of making new ones, and many a warm friend- 
ship has been struck up between Club men who, but for the 
Club Run, would never have met at the Club Tea. It is at 
this frugal meal — severe in its Spartan simplicity — that the 
breast of the young athlete kindles to the fire of emulation^ 



and, building castles in the air. he decorates their walls with 
Enamelled Medals and Silver Gups. 

What though the eggs be hard and weak the tea ? What 
though the veal be lukewarm and tardy in appearance ? 
The LB.C. man whose heart is in the right place sticks 
not at such trifles. They serve but to amuse, while he 
reflects that his suffering is as a fleabite to the anguish of 
his chief, on whose shoulders rests the responsibility of the 
happiness of all. Grumble he probably will— as an English- 
man it is his duty to do so — but let him do it inwardly, 
" beneath a smiling countenance hiding his aching heart,'' 
lest his discontent demoralize others. 

And then there is a sense of happiness, not to be readily 
described but none the less real, that goes with the home- 
ward ride, when stars are beginning to peep through the 
warm evening air, when tobacco and small talk reign 
supreme and the District Captain has relaxed the severity 
of his rule. This to our mind is the best part of a Club 
Run. A dolcefar niente pervades the party— for the flyers 
have ceased to vex, and have toned down to the gentler 
pace of their steadier comrades. The theme is a pleasing 
one, and the liberal support afforded to Club Runs proves 
that our members sympathise with them. But alas ! our 
pot of ointment is not without its fly. There are those who 
vote the Club Run flat, stale, and unprofitable. To such 
let us say one word, and let us say it ex cathedra-^QO to a 
DOZEN of them THIS YEAR ! This will cure your disbelief ; at 
least if you diligently strive, as we hold all should, to give and 
take fairly, and to make allowance for the failings of others, 
remembering that " to err is human — to forgive divine." 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



'committee. 

At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, the 
5th March, the following gentlemen were elected members 
of the Club :— 

Name and Address. Proposer. Seconder. 

Alfred Chas. Fimter, 1, Cumber- 
land Terrace, Lloyd Square, W.O. W. W. Howard. Ajshley Barrett. 

Alfred Acton Kelsey, 18, Pembury 
Road, Clapton A. Uoyd. ' . R. B. Hough. 

The resignation of Mr. H. S. Heal was accepted. 
The resignation of Mr. Juo. Williams, Jun., was accepted 
with regret. 

It was decided that the Club funds should provide 
the Field, Cyclist, and Iricydist, for the Editor's benefit, 
when he should think necessary. 

In reference to the proposal of the London Tricycle Club 
that they should hold a 100 Miles Trial in conjunction with 
the L.B.C. from Bath to London on Whit Monday, the 
Captain reported that T. K Scrutton and himself had 
conferred with three delegates from the L.T.C., and had 
pointed out very forcibly, both verbally and in a subsequent 
letter, the grave objections existing to the scheme. He 
further reported the receipt of a letter from the Committee 
of the L.T.C. stating that tliey had resolved to abandon 
their proposed trial, on which it was unanimously i^esolved 
that the thanks of the Committee of the L.B.C. should be 
forwarded to the L.T.C. for their courteous response to our 
representations. 

The Sub-Committee appointed to find a suitable office 
reported that they had engaged the use of one of three 
rooms at the " City Arms" Tavern, St. Mary Axe, for any 
number of nights not exceeding sixteen per annum, at the 
rate of £5 6s. per annum. Tlie Committee thereupon 
approved and adopted such action. 

At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 19th 
iust., the following gentlemen were elected members of the 
Club 

Name and Address. Proposer. Seconder. 

James GMnville Buyer, 39, 

Highbury Hill, N E. L. Boyer. W. J. Williama. 

Alexander Buckler, Gloucester 

House, Kingston HiU G. P. Coleman. A. E. Buckler. 

The resignation of Mr. E. H. Carr was accepted. 

It was decided that the Secretary of the L.A.C. be 
informed that we are prepared to take less than twelve 
guineas for the Stamford Bridge Grounds on 30th June. 



in ^tmotUm. 

We regret to record the death of one of our oldest 
members. Charles Taylor, of 180, Kennington Park 
Road, died suddenly on March 4th after a few hours' 
illness. He was elected in February 1876, and was 
well-known in the S.W. Division of the Club. We 
trust his family will accept our sincere condolences 
on their loss. 



SUBSCRIPTIONS.— IMPORTANT. 

I beg to remind members that subscriptions for the 
current year were due on January 1st. I shall be pleased 
to receive all subscriptions not yet paid as early as possible. 

151, Amhurst Road, Hackney. R. B. Houan. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
17th March. The opening run was among the most 
successful of that class of assembly which this District has 
enjoyed, as thirteen members in all took part in it. It was 
cold and cheerless at the starting time, and only three 
members started with the D.C. from the Comer, and rode 
by the upper road to Woodford and down Snake's Lane. 
At Woodford Bridge the Editor was waiting, and took part 
in the run to Chigwell, but did not wait for tea. Weeks 
came in soon after, having waited in Snaresbrook, and then 
various hard-training members who had been further afield 
dropped in one by one, the Captain finally completing the 
party. The later arrivals were damp, as rain began about 
5.0, and the return journey, after a quiet smoke and chat, 
was also in the rain. The " King's Head " was frequented 
by more than one other Club, including the London Scottish. 
The District only managed five officers, which the D.C. 
considers a poor allowance. Present : Ashley W. Barrett 
(Captain), G. H. Gibbs, R. B. Hough, S. .G. Hough, A. A 
Kelsey, Large, Lloyd, Long, Lyne, T. E. Scrutton, E. D. 
Seweli, E. A. Weeks, and 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



N.W. DiSTEICT. 

Our opening run was not very well attended, only ten 
members and two visitors putting in an appearance. It 
may be that some members have not yet started riding — let 
us hope that they have not given it up altogether. We 
started from " Jack Straw's Castle " six strong, and arrived 
at " Tally-ho 1 " without incident except a sharp shower of 
hail, which quickly turned into sleet and then rain: A 
short stay was made for shelter and to talk to our reinforce- 
ment, which brouglit our number*up to twelve. At Whet- 
stone we were again caught in a snowstorm, but found a 
friendly cowshed just in time. We turned to the left at 
the church in Barnet, and again to the left; near Well 
House, and then on by Rowley Green to Shenley, where we 
arrived at 6.15 p.m. The descent to the watersplash is 
rather rough just now, but the roads further on were very 
good. Everything was extremely comfortable at the " Black 
Lion," and the time spent there was passed in the usual 
jovial manner. No time was wasted, however, as the roads 
were rapidly getting heavy with the water that had fallen 
in various forms during the afternoon. It is a pretty sight 
to see a dozen lamps alight (when they will keep so) winding 
through the trees, but we had to keep a sharp lookout, as 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



31 



the lanes were not too light. An easy pace was kept all 
the way home> the ran terminating at 9.15 p.m. Distance 
25 miles. Palmbr Dalton, District Captain. 

S.W. District. 
17 th March. It might be said that the opening run of 
the S.W. District was numerously attended ; it might be 
related that the weather was all that could be desired ; 
it might also be affirmed that the District Captain graced 
the proceedings with his presence ; but, as a candid cor- 
respondent, we must confess that the run was carried out 
by only two members, the weather was most unpleasant, 
and the District Captain was unavoidably absent. Under 
these circumstances, we think it best not to hazard our 
reputation for truthfulness by stating that our first run of 
tlie season was quite as successful as it might have been. 
Two members and an honorary member (with four legs) 
left Kingston at 4.30 and rode by Ether and Walton to 
Sunbury, where, at the "Magpie," they found a large 
muster of the W., the two Kinders and Hawley. After a 
satisfactory meal, pleasant conversation assisted by the 
usual consumption of tobacco made the charms of the 
fireside too apparent to be rashly exchanged for the cold 
drizzle out of doors. The homeward journey was short, 
and if the jam-like condition of the road, over which the 
river has been phiyfuUy rolling during the recent floods, 
is taken into consideration, it was certainly sweet as well. 
Present : H. L. Ryan and A.«K Buckler. 

For the D.C. His Dbputy. 

S.E. District. 

Od Saturday, March 3rd, six members joined in a pleasant 
run to Downe, where a good tea was provided by the land- 
lord of the " Oeorge Inn." Present : P. L. Adam, 6. P, 
Beck, A. Day, Alfred Herbert, S. E. Whealler, R. G. Prancis, 
and Adam's fox-terrier "^l\pap." 

Saturday, March 10th was cold and wintry. Only two 



men turned up at the starting place, and after spending 
some time in arranging a refractory tyre, made a short 
circular run. Present : W. C. Oswald and R. G. Francis. 

The weather was more vernal on Saturday 17th March, 
the day of the Opening run ; but frequent showers had the 
effect of reducing the attendance considerably. However, 
the thirteen who left the Fire Station at Croydon at half- 
past four were lucky enough to avoid a wetting, and occa- 
sional gleams of sunshine quite compensated for the muddy 
state of the roads. After a short rest on Farnborough 
Common, the Blackheath Division hove in sight — five in 
number, with Stephen Smith at their head, and when 
Orpington was reached a few stragglers coming in brought 
up the score to twenty-one, including one from the North 
West. The quality of the tea at -the " White Hart," 
Orpington, was below the average, but the music and sbngs 
which followed helped to remove the impressions caused by 
a not over civil host and not too artistic waiters. Mr. James 
Doyle, of the Rovers B.C. kindly presided at the piano and 
his songs were generally appreciated, as were those given 
by Beck, Oswald, and Morgan. At half-past eight lamps 
were lighted and there was an almost universal stampede 
homewards. The O'Reilly made a desperate attempt to 
ride up to the meet from Brighton, but unfortunately the 
adverse state of the elements prevented his getting beyond 
Croydon. Present : P. L. Adam, A. Barker, G. P. Beck, 
C. A. Brown, H. G. A. Brown, R. G. Francis, Alfred Herbert, 
S. Herbert. E. H. Hindley (N.W.), H. G. Morgan, A. Morley, 
J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, H. N. Sharp, R B. Smith, 
S. P. Smith, S. B. WheaUer, R C. Willis, W. Wyndham, 
J, B. Young, J. W. Young, and three visitors. 

It is to be hoped that those who were prevented by the 
weather from attending the Opening Run will have no such 
excuse next Saturday, when a good muster at the " Clayton 
Arms," Godstone, may be confidently expected. 

R. Francis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Dftfce. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


8.£. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


M 


1 Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Syboni*8 Corner 
, 8.45, for Chibhunt. 


"Jack Straw's Cae. 
tie" 8.45, forCHBS- 
RUNT. MeetN.E. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MiU HUl Bead, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Harrow. ("King's 
Arms.") 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Circular 
Bun. Tea at Cob- 
bam. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

GODBTONK. 


8.45, Old Lewisham 
Church for GoD- 

BTONK. 




^Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
and Sybom'fl Comer 
3.45, for £PFI2I0. 


'< Jack Straw's Caa- 
tie" 8.45, for East- 

OOTT. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MiU HiU Boad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
BiPLEY. ('Anchor*) 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for BiFLBT. 
Meet W. 


8.45, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Wrotham. 


< Hare &BiUet,' 4.0, 
for Wrotham. 


April H. 


Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80 
and Sybom's Comer 
8.45,forUpiair8TiR. 
MeetS.S.B]acklith. 
Diviaion. 


"Jack straw's Cas. 
tle"8.45andTaU7. 
hoi 4.80, for Mill 
Hill. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Boad, 
Acton, ^5.45, for 

EABT0OTT.('Ship.') 


Kingston SUtion, 

4.15,forOATLANDS 

Park and Wrt- 

BRIDOK. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Grinbtxad. 


'Hare&Billet,*8.45, 

for UrMlNSTRR. 

Meet K.E. 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(COHTIZnTID rSOM PAOB 16.) 

§ 11. Thun to Fribaurg (vid Bern) and bad by the 
Valleys of the Sarine and Simme, 

A. — FIRST DAY. 

Thun to Pribourg (or Freyburg), 41 miles. 
As you will have to sleep out at Fribourg, send bag by 
train and get your ticket for it before starting. The two 
roads to Bern are given in § 4. If you have ahready seen 
Bern you will find the Kirchdorf road the best, as it leads 
into the Fribourg end of Bern, and you can ride straight on 
without encountering paved streets (you turn to your left 
at the top of the hill by which you come up into Bern). 
If, however, this is to l)e your only visit to Bern, most cer- 
tainly take the Heimberg and Miinsingen road and wheel 
through the town. The hill leading down into it may be 
ridden (brake essential), but don't forget the bears at the 
bottom. 

Between Bern and Fribourg there is no occasion to dis- 
mount, but there is a longish rise of 350 feet between the 
ninth and twelfth miles which will give you some work, and 
you will have to ride down the big hill into Fribourg with 
caution, especially if it happen to be market day. The 
road passes through Nieder Waugen (3| miles), Torishaus 
(6J). and Lanthen (13}) to Fribourg (20). If you are not 
prepared to ride the whole forty miles from Thun without 
a meal, arrange to make it in Bern, as I cannot recommend 
any place further on. An experiment made at Torishaus 
proved an utter failure. The hill by which you descend 
into Fribourg leads you down to the chief suspension bridge, 
but instead of turning at once to your right across it, it will 
be better to ride (or wheel) up the hill in continuation of 
your road another quarter of a mile to the further suspen- 
sion bridge (Pont de Gotteron). After seeing this, return 
again and cross the other into the town. Ton must not 
career across this too rapidly, or you might be fined, as 
vehicles are only allowed to traverse it au pas. Beyond it 
there is pavement. As an early start will have to be made 
next morning, I recommend you to wheel up to the " Grand 
Hotel de Fribourg." It is at the far end of the town, not 
far from the railway station from which you will have to 
send your bag, and from which you will proceed on your 
journey by a road crossing underneath the railway just 
short of the station itself. 

Of course you will go and hear the famous organ after 
dinner — it is generally played about eight, but you had 
better ask at your hotel (where you will get tickets) to 
make sure. If you are a musical critic you must not raise 
your expectations too high. No doubt it is a fine instru- 
ment in its way, and it is fairly well played, which cannot 
be said of many of the Swiss organs, but it is a very long 
way indeed from being the finest organ in the world, or 
from bearing comparison with any of our first-class English 



organs. The fact is, when we English go abroad making 
holiday, we leave our critical faculties behind us. The first 
effect of such a total change of scene and habits is to make 
us take a rosy " view of everything, and sights and sounds 
seem to come to us through the medium of a mysterious 
glamour which invests them in many cases with attributes 
far transcending their real merits. When once, too, a 
reputation has been started in this way, and has received 
the orthodox ratification of the double star in Baedeker, 
no one ever thinks of questioning its claims, but is prepared 
at once to fall down and worship in rapt and reverent 
obedience. I do, however, think that it is high time that 
these Swiss organs should be a bit " blown " upon. The 
two best, so far as real quality of tone and workmanship 
are concerned, are those least publicly performed on, and 
therefore least known. The organ in the old (Protestant) 
Cathedral of St. Pierre at Geneva is a noble instrument, 
with rich broad diapason tone. It was built by an asso- 
ciation of co-operative workmen in Paris some twenty years 
ago — an association, I regret to say, which did not survive 
the days of the siege and the Commune, and it is the only 
production of the Society with which I am acquainted. In 
the Cathedral at B&le, too, is a good organ. Neither of 
these are such elaborate productions as those at Lucerne, 
Bern, and Fribourg, but they are superior in all the essential 
qualities of a good organ. The organ at Lucerne is a noisy, 
blaring, discordant thing, rendered still more painful to 
listen to by the astounding incompetence and bad taste of 
the performer ; and as for that at Bern, it seems to me to 
be permanently in the condition in which a waiter at the 
Bernerhof once represented it to be, in reply to a friend of 
mine, who, on asking if there was to be a performance that 
day, was told, " No, sir ! The organ, sir— she is sick ! " 
The Fribourg organ has also a little of the " blare " about 
it, and is defective in the broad mellow undertone so 
noticeable in our English organs ; but it is decidedly better 
than the other two, as well as better played. They have 
just had a new organ built for the parish church at 
Thun, and as there is still a debt on it I gave them a 
recital this summer in aid of the organ fund. The 
quieter work in the organ is exceedingly good, but the 
"reeds" are very inferior to those of English make. Whilst 
speaking of the church at Thun I cannot help recalling a 
characteristic display of Continental Protestantism on the 
part of the sacristan who admitted me to the church, and 
who kept a disreputable hat on his head and a filthy cigar 
in his mouth the whole time we were in it. After this you 
will be a little surprised to hear that the Church contains 
a regular altar with full canonical ornaments — crucifix, 
candles, etc. This, however, is the property of the " Old 
Catholics " who— some eight only in number, I am told — 
are allowed to use the church for their vernacular mass on 
Sundays. The only other church "ornament" in the 
place is a significant-looking hour-glass occupying the usual 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



33 



place of the crucifix in the pulpit. I never victimised 
myself with a Protestant sermon at Thun, but if the good 
people have to submit to an hour of such blatant twaddle 
as I heard a Sunday or two ago in the principal church at 
Zurich, I pity them. 

B.-H3EC0ND DAY. 

Frihaurg to Thun by BuUe, Chateau d^Oew, etc. 



Height. 


Diitanoe. 




Feet. 


Miles. 




2100 ... 




... Pribourg. 


2210 ... 


;:: ij ::: 


... EcavUlatks. 


2370 ... 


... 12i ... 


... Gameffemi. 


2470 ... 


... 17 ... 


... BoUe. 


2870 ... 


... 19S ... 


... Gruy^ 


2890 ... 


... 21J ... 


... Enney. 


2465 ... 


... 26 ... 


... Albeura. 


2585 ... 


... 27i ... 


... MontboTon. 


2650 ... 


... 29i ... 


... La Tine. 


8200 ... 


... 88 ... 


... Lea MooliiiB. 


8280 ... 


... 86 ... 


... Chateau d'Oex. 


8280 ... 


... 40 ... 


... Bougemont. 


8820 ... 


... 48 ... 


... Saanen. 


4180 ... 


... 464 ... 


. . . Saanen Mooiar (top of watenhed). 


8126 ... 


... 61 ... 


... Zweidmmen (see $ 10 reversed). 


1850 ... 


... 78 ... 


... Thun. 



Considering the amount of climbing to be done, as well as 
the distance, the above represents a tolerably hard day's 
work, and it is therefore necessary to start at daybreak. 
The earliest hour at which you could book your bag at the 
station would be 4.45, as a train leaves for Thun at 5.10, 
and you should certainly be ready with it then. But if it 
be in June or July, when day dawns earlier, I should not 
wait to book the bag in person, but should leave the hotel 
porter to do it, giving him at the same time a stamped 
envelope — addressed to the Thunerhof or wherever you 
may wish to send it — in which he will enclose the ticket 
for the bag, and post it at once in the '* Poste Ambulante " 
attached to the same train. It costs about fifty or sixty 
centimes to send an ordinary bag to Thun. Of course 
you will settle your bill overnight, and, instead of ordering 
a regular breakfast at so impracticable an hour, have a 
roll and a glass of milk brought to your room when you go 
to bed for you to take before you start, and postpone 
breakfasting till you reach Bulle ("Hotel Cheval Blanc"). 
You will find this a useful plan on many excursions. Few 
things are so irritating to the system as to find the virtue 
of your own early rising rewarded by the pardonable dila- 
toriness of gaping waiters and yawning cooks, at whose 
mercy you entirely place yourself whenever you set your 
heart upon a regular meal at such an hour. The fresh 
morning air is in itself food and drink, and when once you 
are in the saddle you will be astonished to find how far you 
can ride before you begin to remember that you have had 
nothing but a crust of bread for breakfast. After 20 or 25 
miles have been left behind, the rest entailed by a halt for 
breakfast is not unwelcome ; the inn you arrive at is by 
that time in full working gear — everyone wears their 
brightest morning smile, and is in the most obliging and 
serviceable mood. There is sure to be some [church or 



other building of interest close by for you to inspect whilst 
your meal is preparing, or perhaps there may be a stream to 
bathe in ; if not, there will be the usual admiring and 
inquisitive crowd of natives to amuse you. In any case you 
will have the satisfaction of feeling that the time you are 
thus kept waiting for your breakfast is a time of useful rest 
after your first stage of riding, whereas to have to wait for 
it before you can start is only so much time lost. 

There is no need for any special directions as regards this 
route ; when once you have crossed under the railway and 
taken the road to the left to Bulle you cannot well miss 
your way anywhere the whole day long. From the third 
to the seventh miles out from Fribourg you must be pre- 
pared for some sharp ups and downs, which you will find 
it best to take with a rush. You had better walk some of 
the ascent up from La Tine, and there is a stiffish hill just 
through Les Moulins, but as you will dismount at Chateaux 
d'Oex (Pension Berthed) for your lunch and principal rest 
you may not find it necessary to walk this. I should wheel 
up the hill into Rougemont, as the road is rough and the 
village paved. The long hill up from Saanen to the water- 
shed dividing the Sarine (or Saane) from the Simme has a 
very good surface if dry, and the gradient is not severe ; 
still, on a long day like this, you will not be able to ride 
all of it. There is ti path cutting off the bend, but you 
will find it rough work wheeling up it — ^still it can be done. 
The hill down to Zweisimmen is a most lovely bit of riding ; 
but I shall never forget the mess I was in at the bottom of 
it from the splutter of the brake, for unfortunately my 
day's work was rendered additionally hard by a succession 
of severe thunderstorms, and consequent muddy roads. 
The hill is a continuous descent of 1000 feet in about four 
miles, or a gradient of 1 in 20, and if you avoid the dili- 
gence hour you are not likely to meet many vehicles on it. 

You sometimes need to give an occasional eye to your 
bicycle when left outside the inn at which you halt. Whilst 
I was enjoying my breakfast at Bulle the local smithy was 
taking professional stock of my ** Neues Fuhrwerk," and 
had already removed a screw or two with a view to an ana- 
tomical inspection of my bearings when I caught him 
redhanded at it. This is, however, the only occasion on 
which I ever found any real liberties taken. The favourite 
occupation of the boys, when you are not by, is to fix your 
brake on — a harmless amusement enough when once you 
have acquired the habit of invariably releasing it the first 
thing on coming out of the hotel. It will not take you long 
to acquire this habit — ^at any rate it will not be the boys' 
fault if it does. 

Should you wish to make a two days' expedition of B, 
Chateau d'Oex would be the natural place for your halt, 
and you would send your bag on there from Fribourg. If 
properly forwarded it ought to be there by one o'clock, but 
when at Bulle, where the railway ends, you had better see 
that it has been transferred from train to diligence. The 



Google 



Digitized by 



84 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



train reaches BuUe at 7.50. On the whole the safest plan 
would be to book it by train from Fribourg (4.40 a.m.) to 
Bolle only, and there get it yourself at the station whilst 
waiting for breakfast ; then you can hand it on to the 
conductor of the diligence in person, and so insure its im- 
mediate transmission. This last process will probably have 
to be effected at the post office. 

At BuUe, by the bye, you will not fail to wind up your 
breakfast with Gruyire cheese, for the sake of being able to 
remark to yourself with the waiter in Punch that it " grew 
here ; " on the whole, however, you will come to the con- 
clusion that (as with the fish at Yarmouth) the best of it 
all goes to London. 

The above completes my list of bicycle excursions from 
Thun. But before passing on to Lucerne, my next head- 
quarters, I will add a few other stray suggestions of a 
possibly useful kind, jotting them down just as they come 
into my head. 

Baedeker mentions Baths in the Lake '* at Thun. There 
are none. There are only the river baths at the far end of 
the town, and very nice they are ; but it is well to acquaint 
yourself beforehand with the " hours and regulations " — 
the hotel porter has them — otherwise you may find yourself 
there at an hour when they are reserved for ladies. Should 
this ever be the case employ your time of waiting by 
walking down the river to see a magnificent lime tree, by 
far the largest I ever saw. It stands in a meadow some 
ten minutes further on. There is a seat under it, and you 
will get a good view of the Jungfrau, etc.^ from the river 
bank. 

Do not omit going to the Oiessbach Falls on the Lake of 
Brienc They are not accessible by road, but you can 
either (a) ride to Brienz and take a boat or steamer across ; 
or (b), leaving your bicycle at Interlachen or Bonigen, you 
can walk along the south side of the lake (char road as far 
as Iseltwald and mountain path after); or (c) you can make 
it a day of rest, and go the whole way by (1) steamer, (2) 
train, (3) steamer, and (4) rope-incline. The falls will give 
you ample opportunity for making experiment of the 
following singular optical delusion. Stand facing one of 
them, not too close, and fasten your eye on some particular 
patch of water at the top ; follow this with your eye fixed 
upon it down to the bottom of the fall ; repeat the process, 
say, from fifteen to twenty times, then suddenly look at the 
bank at the side. You will find that it is palpably and 
distinctly mamng upwards with great velocity. The last 
time I was there it rained in torrents the whole day, and 
we could not venture out of shelter, but looking at the falls 
from the covered balcony of the hotel, I found that with a 
little patient perseverance I could make the whole hillside 
move heavenwards in this way at a terrific rate. It is an 
optical delusion somewhat similar to that by which, when 



you are looking out of the window at a stationary train and 
it begins to move, you are driven to suppose that it is your 
own train that is in motion. 

Another expedition you ought to make is to the Schq/hch 
— mountain boots and alpenstock (or axe) required. Take 
the early steamer to Gunten, and ask for Johann Siegrist, 
a carpenter, as guide. As he is sometimes in Thun, it is 
well to inquire about him by post or otherwise (see § 5 a) 
beforehand. The landlord (Orabe) of the little inn at the 
landing stage can tell you where* to find him. The Schafloch 
is one of those curious limestones caves — of enormous size — 
in which there is a "glacifere," i.^., a reservoir of ice all 
the year round. It is supplied partly by water filtering 
through from above, partly by winter snows which are 
drifted in by the wind, but mainly, I fancy, by the 
constant condensation going on in sununer, owing to the 
contrasts of temperature between the iced air of the cave 
and the hot wind from outside. It is a most interesting 
place, and the walk to and from it is lovely. You will 
come down by the Justiz-Thal abready alluded to, and will 
cross the scene of a considerable landship which took place 
in July of last year. 

And now farewell to Thun. With Lucerne we wiU begin 
another chapter of our story. 

§ 12. Lucerne.— Circuit cf the Lake. 

If you have already made the excursion (see § 8) to 
Lucerne by the Brunig and back by the Emmenthal, you 
will naturally ride there from Thun by the latter. If you 
have not, and wish to choose between the two routes, the 
only remark I would offer is that though the Brunig is the 
more sensational the other is to my mind the more enjoy- 
able ride of the two. You must not go to Lucerne any 
time between the middle of July and the beginning of 
September without sending a wire early in the morning to 
order your room. When we were there this year in August 
the Schweizerhof and the National were sending disap- 
pointed travellers away at the rate of 150 a day, and on 
some occasions the hotel omnibuses had to do duty for 
" chambres d unlimited number of lits*' after the manner 
of the bathing machines in Punch. My personal experience 
of the Lucerne hotels is limited to the two just mentioned, 
of which I slightly prefer the latter ; but there are many 
other hotels in the place on a less extensive and perhaps 
less expensive scale ; or, if you are going to make a pro- 
longed stay, there are plenty of excellent pensions in and 
about the town. The objection, however, to the latter is 
that they mostly " dine early," so that if you wish to be 
out all day you would have to make special arrangements 
about your meals, and for this you would probably have to 
pay as much as if you were in a hotel. One advantage of 
the two big hotels is tiiat they have table d'hote as late as 
7.30, so that you can get a longer day out. At the 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



35 



National they are particularly strong in ices, which appear 
on the menu at least five days out of seven and are 
exceptionally good. Perhaps it is on this account that I 
have a lingering preference for it over the Schweizerhof : 
the thought of them gives one such a delicious sense of 
consolation when you are worrying up a hot hill. It is 
also in convenient proximity to the Casino, where very 
creditable musical entertainment is provided. I should, 
however, warn thirsty members of the L.B.G. that the 
patronage of the ''American Drink" bar at the National, 
which is presided over by a goddess attired in tlie full 
dress of the country, will be found a very expensive and 
unsatisfactory diversion. I hear the " Hotel du Lac " well 
spoken of, and as it is close to the railway station and the 
lauding-stage'of the principal steamers its situation is very 
convenient. 

The first thing you should do at Lucerne is to master 
the routes and habits of the lake steamers. There are 
three sets of them. There are the big boats which go to 
Fluelen, at the head of the main portion of the lake, 
some calling at all places on the vray on both sides, others 
only stopping at a few : then there are the two cross arms 
of the lake, the northern or Eiissnacht bay, and the southern 
or Alpnach bay, each with a separate boat service. Again, 
there are three landing-stages, two on the hotel or north side 
of the lake, and another on the south side near the railway. 
On the north side the Fluelen boats start from a stage near 
the Schweizerhof; the other boats from one nearer the 
National. The Kiissnacht boats ply from the north side 
only ; most but not all of the others call at the railway stage 
as well, and you can always save time, as at Thun (see § 7), 
by using this stage rather than the other. After this 
explanation, which a reference to the map will render 
intelligible, yon have only to tear out the page of your 
" Biirkli " which contains the boat time-table and keep it 
in your purse, and you will never be at a loss if convenience 
or necessity should at any time prompt you to a lift by the 
way. I use the word " necessity " advisedly, for though I 
have headed this section " Circuit of the Lake " there are 
physical diflSculties in the way of performing it entirely on 
a bicycle. Some of the promontories jutting out into the 
lake are so precipitous that no attempt has yet been made 
to carry the road along them, and in other places where 
there is a road it is so exposed in wet and stormy seasons 
to landslips that its continuity is liable to be temporarily 
interfered with. Such, for instance, was the case this 
summer with the road between Gersau and Brunnen. You 
will be dependent therefore on the steamboat service to 
supply the missing links in your course. You can get 
excellent breakfast, lunch, etc., on board the Fluelen boats 
— a, great convenience in^ case of an early start. I will now 
give the itinerary of the lake. Starting from Lucerne in 
the Pihitus direction, that ia towards the south side of the 
lake, we have— 



Distance. 
Miles. 

3i Honr. 

6^ • HflrgiswyL 

Sj SUnzstacL 

lOl Stanx. 

18} BnoohB. 

I6i Beckenried. 

As far as Stanzstad the road is the*Brunig road (see § 8a). 
After leaving Lucerne it does not touch the lake till a mile 
beyond Horw. Stanzstad is at the point where the Alpnach 
Bay begins. The lake here is so narrow that a bridge has 
been run across it. From Stanzstad you again quit the lake 
for the 5^ miles to Buochs, as a big rocky promontory (the 
Biirgenstock, on which there is an enormous hotel) shuts 
you out from it. The precipitous N.E. arm of this forms 
the western or lower of the two "Noses," as they are called 
("Untere," u. "Obere Nase"), the eastern or upper one 
being the portion of the Rigi between Vitznau and Oersau, 
across which again there is no road. In Stanz you turn 
down to your left-half, opposite the fountain — ^the con- 
tinuation road is that to Engelberg. You will probably 
dismount at Stanz to see the Winkelried Monument 
and the Church— otherwise there is no need to get 
off, for the pavement is excellent, a very model of what 
street paving ought to be. I only wish our English paviors 
and street architects could be sent there to study it. As a 
general rule the paved streets of Swiss towns are very 
superior to those at home, and can be ridden with compara- 
tive comfort in at least two cases out of three, though some- 
times, as at Rheinfelden for instance (see § 1), they are very 
bad indeed. At Beckenried your riding on this side of the 
lake ends, and you must transfer yourself to some other 
point by steamer. The road does indeed lead further on 
up to the Seelisberg, through the village of Emmetten, and 
past the little Seelisberg Lake, but it is a continuous ascent 
of 1350 feet. I have not been along it recently, but my 
pedestrian recollections of it years ago are those of a rough 
mountain track, quit unfit for bicycles. But it is possible, 
now that the Seelisberg and its big hotel have become such 
a fashionable resort, that it has developed into something 
better ; in any case there is a proper carriage-road, though 
steep and zigzagging, from the Seelisberg down to the lake 
again at Treib. But the gradient of this descent, as far as 
I can estimate it from the map, must be an average of 1 in 
13, which probably means 1 in 10 in places, so that it would 
require to be taken " gingerly." Oerabd F. Cobb. 

Thunerhof, Thun, August, 1882. 

(To be continued,) 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
Tricycle for Sale. — " Excelsior," bv Bayliss and Thomas : 
run under five hundred miles. Ball bearings, gun metal 
hubs, lamp, etc. £9 10s. Alfred Henry, 57, Moorgate 
Street. 

53-in. " Rudge," ball bearings to front and back wheels 
and pedals, Rucker's bent handles. Price £10. F. J., 
37, Downs Road, Clapton. 



Digitized by 



36 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



SMOKING CONCERT. 

If we may judge from the large attendance at the City 
Arms "Tavern on March 15th, and from the enthusiasm 
evoked by the various items on the programme, there can 
be no doubt about the success of the first and last official 
Smoking Concert of the past winter, and the result was 
very gratifying to the Sub-Committee instructed to pro- 
mote it. In comparing it with similar entertainments 
given in the past at short intervals, it shows, we think, the 
advantage of not repeating them too frequently, and to 
give more than two during the winter, is in our opinion 
" killing the goose." 

The company was not only more numerous, but more 
representative than usual of the various divisions of the 
Club. University and country members, heroes of the 
path and the Bath road, record-holders and potterers, 
active and lazy, met to take advantage of the free and eas^ 
character of the proceedings. A little too much licence 
was taken in this way, and less noise would certainly have 
been more in harmony with some of the songs. 

Owing to the late arrival of some of the performers, and 
to the unfortunate illness of G. E. Schmettau, which 
necessitated the abandonment of two trios in which he was 
to have taken part, the first half of the programme under- 
went, as the Captain pertinently put it, ''some slight 
variations;" but at half-past seven Mr, C. P. Little 
opened the concert with a pianoforte solo, " Norwegian 
Bridal March," W. A. Smith following with a song, "Jessie, 
the flower of Dumblane," which was given in his usual 
excellent style. The quintette, " Crown diamonds," was 
then efiFectively played, after which C. Y. Lyne and P. N. 
Large were warmly applauded for the duet, The moon 
hath hid her light." Mr. C. P. Little succeeded in 
convulsing the audience by the humour with which he 
invested "The young man who went out to a party," and the 
room was not quieted until he had promised to sing again 
later on. Successes were also gained by the song, " Three 
merry men," by R. Newman, and the scherzo for violin and 
viola. C. Y. Lyne was quite himself in " I'm not myself at 
all," and Mr. H. Dutton again delighted his hearers with 
his sympathetic rendering of "Oft in the stilly night." 
At this point a break was made, and a very good one it 
proved, an honorary member, E. T. Sachs, giving a very 
clever conjuring performance ; after exhibiting some won- 
derful card tricks, he produced florins from every impossible 
place with such skill that those who were sitting right 
under him were quite as puzzled as the rest. The applause 
when the performance was finished was so great that in 
order to silence it the conjuror was obliged to respond by 
showing the handkerchief-knot trick, which was done so 
skilfully as to baffle discovery. ^ 

The second part of the programme was then commenced 
with the duet, "Friendship," by the N.E. Inseparables, 
and after G. N. Latham had sung " Awful little scrub," 



Mr. H. Dutton sang " The meeting of the waters " with 
rare feeling. A valse by Labitzlcy was also well rendered 
by the Quintette. Loud applause greeted M. D. Rucker 
after he had sung " To Anthea,** and Mr. J. D. Butler in 
" Medje," and Mr. C. P. Little in " The Chancellor's Song," 
from lolanthe, both gained well-merited approval, as also 
did F. N. Large in the song, " My little sweetheart," and 
W. A. Smith^ in " Tell her I love her so," M. D. Rucker 
bringing a most enjoyable evening to a spirited ending by 
a recitation, in which he introduced a most astounding fall, 
only to be compared with a similar effort by the same 
performer between Upminster and Purfleet. 

The room was crowded throughout, and the festive bowl 
circulated freely. Some slight difficulties were experienced 
with the ventilation, owing to the impossibility of satisfying 
at the same time the men sitting under the windows and 
the men on the other side of the room. Several serious 
illnesses were threatened, but we have not heard of their 
fulfilment. 

DISCLAIMER 

ISSAitttaa by a declaration bearing date the first day of 
March 1883 and made or signed by certain persons to wit 
T. E. Scrutton and Arthur Lloyd not therein described I 
the undersigned am called upon with certain other persons 
to do and perform certain acts deeds matters and things 
therein set forth for the convenience and benefit of the said 
two persons above named Jlnli tohjerea^ I in order to save 
myself any further trouble in the matter have decided to 
make and execute these presents I Theodore Godlee 

in the said declaration called Theo. Godlee do hereby 
ABSOLUTELY AND IRREVOCABLY disclaim all responsibility 
or obligation to the said T. E. Scrutton and Arthur Lloyd 
or either of them to do make or execute any of the said 
acts deeds matters and things ^nb further that if I do 
or may do any one or more of such things I will do the 
same for my own proper convenience and without admitting 
any liability to the said two persons or either of them 
Jtnb la0tls that I will meet the said T. E. Scrutton for 
divers other purposes mentioned in the said declaration to 
wit to settle any differences that may arise between us in 
consequence of these presents at such time and place as we 
may mutually agree — [Come on — T.E.S.] 

As witness my hand and fist this 17th day of March 18S3 

Theo. Godlee 

[Note. — " And, saying he would ne'er consent, con- 
sented."— Ed.] 

ANOTHER MARCH VALENTINE. 

7b a West member playing billiards at Sunbury after the 
opening Club Run. 

Non habet leges. 

(Marcus Ourius Canonicus.) 
(As it is computed that only three members understood 
the previous issue of Valentines, we hasten to inform our 



Coogle 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



87 



readers that the correct translation of the above is " It has 
not legs/' and it is an expression commonly used among the 
cognoscenti when a ball does not travel as far as it should) 
[Editorial Notb. — We forbear to bring a blush to the 
highly respectable face of our esteemed contributor by 
appending his name to the above effusion. We print it 
as a sad warning of the extent to which jealousy of 
superior achievements may lead an ordinarily scholarly 
and appreciative mind. — ^Eb.] 

RACING FIXTURES. 
Mar. 31.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
April 14. — Surrey B.C. at Surbiton. 

21.— Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
28.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
28. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 
May 12.— Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 

14. — Scottish Games and Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26. — ^L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26. — West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2. — Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9.-.C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
13 — O.U.BlC. v. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16.— London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 



W. District. 

(Jteceived too late for iruertion vnth other Club Runt. J 

We had a very fair attendance at the opening run on 
Saturday tiie 17 th March, to Sunbury. Taking the wet 
afternoon into consideration, for only one or two escaped 
with dry coats on the outward journey, and none who 
attempted to return at night escaped the drenching rain 
that came down so persistently, nine West, one S.W., one 
N.W., and three S.E., making a total of fourteen, spent a 
very pleasant evening at the " Magpie ; several members 
varying tlie entertainment with the aid of cards, billiards, etc. 

I would ask all who can, to attend as many runs as possible 
during the coming season, and to give as much of their 
support to the District as possible, and, by so doing, endea- 
vour to raise our attendance from the state of lethargy into 
which it appears to have fallen. The runs chosen for the 
coming Saturdays are pleasant and various, and, given fine 
weather, nothing further should be wanting as an induce- 
ment to all members to support them. 

Hoping to receive that support which I confidently hope 
for during the coming season, — Believe me. Yours faithfully, 
Harolo C. Pigott, District Captain, 



CHANGES OP ADDRESS. 
H. Muir, 86, Hunter's Lane, Birmingham. 
H. A. Des VoBux, 2, Sussex Place, Kensington, W. 



OUR FRANCO-SWISS TOUR OF 1882. 
{Continued from p, 26.) 

The first of October was the finest day this part of the 
country had seen for a month. L., W., and B., (for 
unfortunately M. was a little out of sorts), in company 
with a gentleman staying at the hotel, had a splendid walk 
to the top of the Wengem Alp. Our path skirting the 
base of the Eiger, we saw many fine avalanches. For some 
distance we had to wade through plenty of snow, which on 
approaching the summit (6,224 feet) was some three feet 
deep. This was quite a new experience for us, and we had 
plenty of fun laughing at each other's misfortunes, for, the 
ground being uneven beneath its treacherous covering, our 
falls were frequent and often ludicrous, sometimes both 
legs and an arm disappearing from view. 

The last piece to the inn was a succession of flounders, 
and when we at last reached the summit, tired and panting 
with the novel exertion, we found that our progress had 
been watched with more interest than we could have 
imagined. An American gentleman his two daughters 
and little boy, (whom we had met two days back at Lungern), 
had ridden up from Lauterbrunnen (the snow being slight 
on that side), and having discharged their horses were 
about to commence the descent to Grindelwald on foot 
when they caught sight of us struggling up, the bad weather 
we were making taking them rather aback. Our opinion 
on the matter being asked, we could not, considering the 
many undignified attitudes we had involuntarily struck, 
conscientiously recommend the ladies to try the descent, 
although of course we tendered our assistance should they 
make the attempt. After considering the state of affairs 
for some little while they made up their mind to stay the 
night at the inn, trusting to the off chance of the surface 
of the snow freezing sufficiently hard during the night to 
bear them. We may add that they arrived at our hotel 
the following day, but from the reticence of the girls on 
the subject, and the heap of clothes to be dried, we guessed 
that the frost was a delusion. 

The view from the Wengem Alp is one not likely to fade 
from one's memory in a hurry. The tremendous mass of 
the Juug&au, covered with spotless snow, stands out 
against the clear blue sky, while the Monch, the Silberhorn, 
and her other companions complete the beauty of the scene. 
The glories of the scene reminded us of a similar day three 
years ago, when we scrambled up to the lofty Porte de 
Venasque and gazed on the Maladetta, the highest of the 
Pyrenees. 

The following morning iu most auspicious weather we 
started, accompanied by a guide, fully equipped for a day 
on the Lower Glacier. Zigzagging up the mouth of the 
gorge for some little distance, we presently came to the 
commencement of the glacier and reached its surface by 
swarming up a moderately long ladder. In consequence of 
the large quantity of firesh snow the avalanches rendered 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



the usual route skirting the base of the Mettenberg unsafe, 
and necessitated our proceeding by a new track, which the 
guide had to pilot out for us. At first, the ice being very much 
broken, we got on but slowly, as step-cutting is rather 
tedious work, but after a time the travelling was decidedly 
easier, and we made good progress. A little farther on a 
big avalanche, about the size of an elongated Hyde Park 
more or less, blocked the way, and had to be scrambled 
over. It was our intention to have pushed on to the 
Chalet of Zasenberg, ** the last human habitation amongst 
the giants of the Bernese Alps," but by the time we had 
penetrated as far as the centre of the Mer de Glace the 
crevasses were so completely hidden by the deep snow that 
our guide did not think it prudent to proceed farther. 
Lunch seemed the most appropriate thing to do next ; so 
the basket was unpacked, the wine immersed in the snow, 
and, thanks to the care of our thoughtful hosts at the Bar, 
we were soon busy with a capital meal Having lightened 
the basket, we linger awhile contemplating the wild waste 
of snow and ice, hemmed in without visible outlet by 
majestic mountains. It is a gi*and sight, rendered more 
impressive by the extreme solitude in which we seemed to 
be the only living creatures. Nature can hardly be quieter — 
except when disturbed now and again by the dull roar of 
an avalanche — even at the North Pola We returned by a 
lofty path along the cliffs of the Mettenberg. All of us 
were greatly interested with our day's experiences, and, with 
the exception of W., much enjoyed the fun of scrambling 
and sliding about. He, who is more at home on his cycle 
than swarming up slippery slopes and crazy ladders, says 
that you'll never catch me on a glacier again ; I'd rather 
ride another Bath Race." His verdict may be altered 
perhaps by this time. 

What is more wretched than a thoroughly wet day away 
from home? In your own house you can always find 
plenty of occupation, but in a small village three thousand 
five hundred feet above the sea, enveloped all day in dense 
cloud, what is to be done ? If you do brave the elements 
and go out, what is the profit ? The view of clouds and 
mist can be seen to just as much advantage from the hotel 
door. Our hosts, ever on the alert to make us comfortable, 
seeing that the time hung heavily with us and that we 
were likely to smoke ourselves silly for want of other 
employment, fetched us out a rook rifle, and, a target being 
quickly improvised in front of the porch, we had some 
capital fun. This, with sundry small excursions to the 
village, beneath the big carriage umbrella that covered the 
four of us, to watch the smith — a clever young fellow — ^fit 
a new spoon to W.'s brake, which had worn through, helped 
to pass the time away. Indoors we condoled with our 
American friends on the miserable state of affairs, and 
derived a good deal of amusement from some of their 
remarks. Asking them as to their intended movements, 
we had : 1 guess if it gits fine we'll take a run up the 



Glazier" followed by, Wal, I don't care much if it don't; 
we're goin' on to Ghamouny, and I reckon there are plenty 
of Glaziers there ! " A. E. B. 

(To be continued,) 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 

The B.U. Council Meeting resulted in the usual amount 
of talk, though a very decisive rebuke was administered to 
one " orator " in his place among the rejected candidates 
for the Executive, while another only found himself eleventh 
out of the sixteen elected. S. P. Smith and H. R. Reynolds, 
of the L.B.C., were re-elected on the Executive ; T. E. 
Scrutton resigned his office of Treasurer and his seal on the 
Executive. 

• ••••• 

The election of President was marked by some very 
childish opposition, happily coming frt)m very junior mem- 
bers of the Union. W. A. Smith was proposed in opposition 
to Mr. 6. E. Cobb, the founder of the Union, and his pro- 
poser conveyed to the meeting the impression that 
McCullum had been consulted and consented to stand. It 
is only fair to say that our well-known member had dis- 
tinctly refused to allow himself to be nominated for the 
post. 

• # • • ' # • 

The Birmingham Championship has been definitely fixed 
for the 7th July. There is some doubt as to the Cambrulge 
fixture, which may, I hear, be transferred to Oxford or 
London. 

• ••••• 

The Pickwick B.C. hold their race meeting on June 9th, 
at the Crystal Palace. Their Invitation Race is to be a 
Half-mile Tricycle Race. I should imagine it is about as 
unfair and dangerous a distance as could be selected for that 
course. 

• ••••• 

One of the recent B.T.C. candidate writes that he is 69 
years of age, and has ridden 53,111 miles — 35,493 on 
bicycles and 17,618 on tricycles — without an accident, 
and without having caused an accident. Can any of our 
members beat this ? 

There is some suggestion of the B.U's. changing its name, 
to keep pa^ with the C.T.C. (late B.T.C.). 

• • • • • • * 

H. 6. A. Brown, of ours, was appointed one of the Auditors 
of the B.U. for last year's accounts. The Treasurer is 
quaking. 

• • • • • 

E. R. Shipton, one of our members, has become Secretary 
of the 'Cyclists' Touring Club, a financial arrangement 
having been made which enables him to devote all his time 
to the Club. He has also been elected a member of the 
B.U. Executive. The Fbont Whbbl Hub. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



89 



CorrcBpmtlicttJCt. 

DRAMATIC SOCIETY. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sm, — The following details may perhaps be of interest 
to members : — ^Financially our performance was a fair 
success, there being a balance of about ten guineas to 
the credit of the Society. 

The following papera were represented at our per- 
formance : — The Bicycling Times, Tricyclist, Bicycling 
News, B.T,C. Gazette, Cyclist, Chronicle, Daily News, 
Era, Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News, and The 
Referee, 

Two stall tickets each were given to the Oxford and 
Cambridge Universities, the Belsize, Druids, Pickwick, 
Stanley, Surrey, Wanderers, and the West Kent Clubs, and 
the majority, on acknowledging the same, cordially congra- 
tulated us on our success. 

About 600 tickets were taken at the door, two-thirds of 
which were stalls. Forty-one members subscribed to the 
Society this year. — ^Tours truly, Alfred Barker. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
Sir, — While yielding to no one in a desire to encourage 
the accession of tricyclists to our ranks, I can scarcely 
believe that we shall succeed to any extent in so doing. 
Numerous influential Tricycle Clubs are now established in 
the metropolis : it is only reasonable to conclude that riders 
of the three-wheeler, the great majority of whom are of a 
different stamp to bicyclists, will join those clubs exclu- 
sively devoted to their own form of cycling, in which they 
would be associated with companions of their own calibre. 
As for any alteration in the established rules and regulations 
affecting our Bath Trial, with a view to a similar one for 
tricyclists, there appears to be a very general feeling in the 
Club that such a move would be, to say the least of it, 
premature, and, as far as I can learn, unpopular. Excluding 
two or three old members who (temporarily, let us hope) 
have exchanged the bicycle for the tricycle, we have no 
new members who are exclusively tricyclists ; surely it will 
be quite time enough to adopt fresh departures for the 
Bath Trial when we find that we have amongst us a number 
of tricyclists of the stamp likely to enter for such an ordeal. 
I forbear discusung the question of the twelve hours' time 
limit proposed, but I think it is pretty plain that the 
100 miles on the Bath road should be easily accomplished 
under that time on some of the fast machines now turned 
out — I am, sir, yours faithfully, ^ "Brbpkbt." 

March 11th, 1883. 
[Note. — We shall be glad to hear from some of our tri- 
cycling members on this subject. — Ed.] 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — In September last I ventured to call the attention 
of the Qub to the liberality of those in authority in giving 



away more gold medals every year than the rules of the 
Club, as printed in the Blue Book, permit. Now though, 
by strictly interpreting the rules, we should most probably 
have to reduce die number of medals, I do not believe that 
the framers of the existing laws ever intended that 1^ than 
ten medals should be given each year to non-medallists 
except in the case of the " Enamel " being won by an old 
hand ; and I really think at the Special General Meeting, 
which is to be called before long, the Club should be asked 
to alter the phraseology of the Bath-day regulations so as 
to legalise the action of the officers in past years, and allow 
the spirit of the present law to coincide with the letter. — 
Yours, Red Tape. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deUver it that the porpentine earteth off his quills 
when he wotdd attack, or defend himselfi but IMosoorides affinneth it a 
point of folly to believe it."-^ir T. Bbowkx. 

The property master at the recent Dramatic Show says : 

" Tou can imagine my feelings when, after being slated by 

the Treasurer for purchasing 'dry Monopole' instead of 

Gooseberry, it is libelled by your candid friend in the gallery 

as ' Zoedone with the labels caxefiiUy turned away.' " 
«••••• 

A member evidently not quite up in our traditions 

asked me the other day : " Do the District Captains stop 

away from Meets if it is wet V I smiled at his innocence 

in supposing such a thing, and of course answered, "Never! " 

• • • • • • 

Scene at Smoking Concert. 

Dramatis Pmonm—V. and W. (two members well known In the S JE. 
District). Small Boy. 

ACT. L 

F. and W. order two coffees ; and then each tells Small 
Boy " the other gentleman will pay." Small Boy distressed. 
ACT n. 

P.'s kind heart relents ; he calls boy secretly and pajrs 
for both cups. Small Boy retires grateful : P. feels virtuous. 
ACT m. 

W.*s kind heart relents ; he calls boy ostentatiously and 
pajTS for one cup, referring him to P. for the other. Small 
Boy grins, and gives the money to P. Tableau. 

Curtain falls on P. triumphant ; W. discomfited. Small 
Boy grinning. 

• ••••• j 

I hear that a proposal will be made at the Special j 
General Meeting to prohibit members of the Club from | 
being members of any other metropolitan bicycle or tricycle j 
club, with an exception in favour of honorary members of 
such clubs. 

• •«••• 

Suburban 'Arry, on seeing lamps of the N. W. District on 

Saturday night : 'UUo ! 'ere come the " Lights o' London." 

• # # ■ • • « 

I hear that the ez-Captain nearly electrified the N.E. at 
their opening meet by appearing in a complete suit of 
unattached uniform — and a blue cricket cap I In view of 
his D.C.'s conservative principles he refrained, and contented 



Digitized by 



40 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



himself with a mongrel pair of nether garments, justified as 
being the " new Club cloth." 

No one appreciated Sachs* conjuring at the Smoking 
Concert so much as the two small "buttons" who waited 
on us. * They followed him about open-mouthed ; when the 
great magician extracted a florin from the ear of one of 
them, he promptly retired into a corner and counted his 
takings for the evening to make sure he had not been 
m3rsteriousIy robbed. Sachs' request for handkerchiefs 
brought both boys up with a rush of " serviettes/' as E. T. S. 

politely put it. 

• « • • • • 

Our visitors at the Smoking* Concert were unanimous in 
declaring they had never heard anything like our instru- 
mental quintettes. 

• »•••• 

I hear that several of our racing men make their first 
appearance this year on the racing path at Stamford Bridge 

on Saturday. 

• •••«• 

A member's brother, E. P. Powell, won the Quarter-Mile 

at the Inter-University Sports. 

• «••«• 

H. R. Reynolds is reported to have achieved his smallest 
on record by only riding 30 miles during a fortnight in 

February ; 30 yards would have been enough for me. 

• •«••• 

Again there is a sound of wedding bells in the air ; but 
this time the wind is not in the South-East quarter, for I 
hear that it is a popular member of the West district who 
is about to enter the holy estate^ 

I also hear of a similar ceremony, likewise to take place 
next month, in which an ex-N.W. official and committee- 
man of long standing will play the leading character. 

• « • • • .* 

I hear our Editor has becoise a ''pro." The B.U. should 
inquire into this. — [Impudence. Ed.] 

Suggested second title for March Valentines : — 
" A Latin word, a Greek remark, and one that*s French." 

lolanthe. 

• ••••« 

Sachs would be a most vahable member at a Club run, 
at that awkward period of the evening when demands for 
sums of 2& 3d. cast a gloom o'er our souls. His power of 
producing florins from nowhere would then be really 
acceptable. 

• «•••« 

The experience of the laat three years shows that the 
season should open with a General Meet at Blackheath. 
Last Saturday, for the third consecutive time, the Blackheath 
Division went to the opening run, leaving fine weather 
behind them, and found rain and mud awaiting them six 
miles off ; on their return they found, as in 1881 and 1882, 
that no rain had fallen in their absence. 

Probably few S.E. men were aware on Saturday that the 



" White Hart," Orpington, is the favourite summer haunt 
of writers engaged in preparing pantomimes for the lower 
class of London theatres; this is however the fact, and 
amply accounts for the circumstance that the chops, eggs, 
and marmalade made their " entries" by trap-doors in the 
floor. The waiter had also imbibed the spirit of the place 

in more sense )}han one. 

• * • • • • • 

T. E. Scriitton has been appointed Professor of Constitu- 
tional History and Law at University College, London. 

• 4» ' • • • • 

I hear from Mentone, what all the Club will be glad to 
learn, that Arthur Herbert's health is improving in the 

" sunny ^uth." 

• # • • • • 

"I know yon by the waggling of your head." — 

Much Ado About Nothing. Aet, II., Scene 1. 
Somebody rudely suggested that the above would be 

very applicable to one of our most prominent racing men 

• » » • • • 

A "Humber" well known in the South West, which has 
carried its owner some 14,000 miles, h^a at length succumbed 
to a curb-stone. The rider's attention was fixed upon 

but I promised I. wouldn't tell. 

• ••••• 

At Lawrence's, opposite Exeter Hall, the Smoking Con- 
cert Sub-Committee were besieged by the Salvation Army; 
the latter, however, hastily withdrew on hearing the quan- 
tity of whiskey with which it was proposed to demoralize 
the guests. 

• ••#•« 

Daggers and dynamite are quite enough for my weak 
nerves, without the terrible blow that the honorary 

Secretary has given them. 

• ••••• 

In tite wake of Cupid's dart, accept a congratulatory 
quill from the Pobcupine. 

SMOKING CONCERT. 

The Sub-Committee wish to thank very sincerely the 
members who contributed to the success of the above 
entertainment, especially F. Jolly and C. Y. Lyne, who 
undertook respectively the organisation of the instrumental 
and the choral departments. 

They also feel that they owe much to the help of several 
visitors, including Messrs. C. and E. Cockerell, Springmuhl, 
Little, Butler, and Dutton. 

Members owing for tickets or refreshments are requested 
to forward the amounts in stamps to Stephen P. Smithy 
9, Morden Road, Bktckheath. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributions must be addressed to ** The Editor, L.B.C. Oftzette, 
85, Eastcheap, £.C.,*' and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessftrQy for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and must b-* received not later than Tuesday, the 8id April, 
at 6 p.m. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Dablino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.C.— March 29, 1883. 



Digitized by 



Google 





An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 5.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



April 5, 1883. 



CONT 

PAGE 

The District Captain 41 

Club Meets 42 

Saturday Runs 42 

The Road Trial 43 

The Late Charles Taylor 43 

Our Franco-Swiss Tour of 1882 43 

The Easter Run from Bath 44 

Easter Runs 45 

T/ie nea:t Gazette will be published an Ihursd^zy, 12th 
April. Copy should be sent in not later than 6 p.m. on 
l^uesday, the 10th. All contributions to the Gazette are 
allowed to pass by book post, provided they are in no way 
of the nature of a letter. It is as well to have them 
endorsed MS. for Press." 

THE DISTRICT CAPTAIN. 
Lasfc week we spoke of Club runs, and this week we 
propose to refer to a prominent feature of Club runs — the 
District Captain. We have heard it said that ** a conscien- 
tious District Captain has as hard work as the Hon. Sec./' 
but it must be added that the originator of this remark had 
been a D.C. but never an Hon. Sec, and persons more 
likely to judge of both positions fairly are sceptical on the 
point. There is no doubt, however, that if a D.C. does 
seriously set himself to make his District successful he has 
not an easy time of it. We ventured to say last week that 
the healthy life of the Club was dependent upon the Club 
runs ; we may almost add that the healthy life of Club 
runs depends on the District Captain. We say this without 
any wish to unduly magnify the office, but rather with a 
desire to impress upon the D.C.'s the very serious respon- 
sibility which rest43 upon them. First and foremost among 
their duties is regular attendance at meets, in which we 
may fairly say that past D.C.'s have been well up to the 
mark, as last year the attendance medal was taken by the 
D.C. in every District but one, and in that he was only one 
point behind the medallist. Then it is always necessary to 



INTS. 

PAOB 

AU Round the Wheel 46 

Correspondence 46 

Quills 47 

Racing Fixtures 48 

Exchange List 48 

Gleanings from a Club Tea Table 48 

A Novel Spin on the Goodwin Sands on a Bicycle 48 

Notice to Correspondents 48 

keep up the interest of members if possible by some change 
in destination or in the routine of Club runs, paperchases 
and picnics being fair samples of the method of arriving at 
this latter result. The means adopted to induce attendance 
in diflferent Districts will naturally vary with circumstances. 
One man may effect wonders with postcards, while another 
may find personal applications possible and more effective, 
but we fancy the time has gone by when a D.C. can sit 
still and expect his District to flock to meets without any 
encouragements. 

It is in the actual conduct and pace of runs, however, 
that his responsibility is most apparent. A D.C. may 
increase or diminish the attendance more than is some- 
times imagined by too wild a rush, which disheartens the 
beginner, or by too funereal a crawl, which disgusts the 
flyer, and unless he can duly regulate his District he may 
as well give up the attempt to make his year of office 
successful. So far District Captains may perhaps think we 
are directing our remarks rather pointedly to thera, but in 
conclusion we have this to say to the rest of the members, 
if the duties of the D.C. are difficult, it rests with you to 
lighten them. The ideal D.C. would only have to ride at 
the head of a District and preside at the frugal tea at its 
termination, spending the rest of his days in peace and 
quietness. Let all members, therefore, endeavour to ob- 
tain for the District Captain a near approach to this ideal, 
and we venture to promise that they will themselves reap 
the benefits of their efforts. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Bate. 


N.B. 




w. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Dirision. 


S.E. 

Blabkkeath Division. 




1 Left Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
1 3.45, for Epfino. 


"Jaok Straw's Cas- 
tle" 8.45, for £ast- 

COTT. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill HiU Road, 
Acton, 3.45, for 
RiPLBT. ('Anchor') 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Ripurr. 
Meet W. 


8.45, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Wbothax. 


<HareftBi]let,M.O, 
for Wbothaic 


April 14. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 3.80 
1 and Sybom's Comer 

8 .45, forUPMINSTBR. 

MeetS.£.Blackhth. 
Division. 


"Jack Straw's Cas- 
tie" 3.45 andTaUy. 
ko! 4.80, for Mill 

Rttj., 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

EASTOOTT.('Ship.') 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for OxTLAiriM 
Park and WzT- 

BUDOE. 


4*15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

EaBT 6BI1I8TKAD. 


<HanftBiUet,'8.45, 
for UPMumiB. 
Meet N.E. 



April 21. — Hallifobd. (General Meet. Times and places of starting to be pabliabed in the Gazbtti. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
31st March. This district did not manage so good a 
muster to meet the N.W. as might reasonably have been 
expected from the fine weather and pleasant destination. 
The Captain and two other members left the Corner with 
the D.C., and proceeded by Higham Hill to Chingford, the 
Captain and Lloyd negotiating the hill up to the church. 
The Editor joined us at this point ; and in the fruitless 
effort to avoid stones the District made a long circuit by 
the " Forest Hotel " and High Beech and so to Waltham. 
The Treasurer, who had come by the direct route, joined 
the District at Waltham Abbey, but the Editor had left 
just before, so we were only five strong going into Cheshunt. 
However, three more were waiting at the " Green Dragon," 
and we were hardly off our machines when the N.W. rode 
up. Tea was as usual good and cheap, if simple, and the 
attendants very attentive. It was just dark as the District 
started home, Lyne and Stunt returning chiefly with the 
N.W., and the main body making their way over much 
loose stones via the direct route between Waltham and 
Chingford, meeting S. G. Hough near the former town, and 
reaching Walthamstow about ten o'clock. Present : Ashley 
Barrett (Captain), R. B. Hough, S. G. Hough, A. A. Kelsey, 
Lloyd, Lyne, T. E. Scrutton, E. D. Sewell, G. N. Stunt, 
Weeks, and Thbo. Godlee, District Captain. 



S.W. District. 

The sentiments expressed in the leader in our last issue, 
entitled "The Natural History of Club Runs," we trust 
will always apply to the S.W. District, and we must 
earnestly hope that our^oung athletes, in the construction 
and mural decoration of any " airy castles " they may con- 
ceive, will not lose sight of the great duty they owe to 
their Club and neglect its Saturday Runs. 

Without any fear of causing 'disappointment we can, 
doubtless, safely promise to visitors to the S.W. a better 
and more tempting spread than the melancholy indication 
of an indigestible skeleton Club tea contained in the in- 
teresting article above referred to. The district force 



mustered at Kingston Station three strong, and after 
allowing ample time for any possible addition to the ranks, 
but without securing any welcome reinforcements, the com- 
pany commenced its circular run. For the convenience of 
any members or visitors who may arrive late at Eangstou, 
I propose to leave a card upon the mantelpiece opx>08ite the 
booking office at that station, containing the latest imfor- 
mation for tardy members, as to our numbers, direction, 
and place for tea, so that if by any chance the destination 
of the district were to be modified or altered by the wish of 
a majority at the last moment, others desiring to join us 
would, by this arrangement, be enabled and perhaps 
encouraged to do so. 

It is a melancholy fact that this short circular and 
attractive run had charms for only three members, but this 
was all that could be recorded when we took to the sunny 
lanes at Surbiton, and pursued our wa3rward course through 
Claygate, Ockshott, Stoke d'Abemon, and Church Cobham 
to Cobham proper, where we stayed for tea at the " White 
Lion." The surfaces of the lanes we traversed were variable, 
and the combined mud and rough roads afforded us oppor- 
tunities for healthy exercise. The frugal repast at Cobham 
was below our usual average, except in the matter of 
charges. An hour and a half was devoted to amusement 
here, which included much of the fragrant weed, and after 
this period — ^with only two lamps to do duty for three — we 
took to the main Portsmouth road, and reached Kingston 
about 8.30 p.m. Distance 20 miles. Members present : 
A. L. Gruggen, H. L. Ryan, and 

R. M. Gbuogen, District Captain. 

Next Saturday we run to Ripley to meet the West at 
the "Anchor" — that favourite reiidezvous for all the wheel 
world — and I earnestly hope that all our members will 
make a point of being present themselves and use their 
influence to induce others to follow their example. 



S.E. DiSTBICT. 

The last day of March was quite a butterfly day, but 
there were several butterflies of the two wheeled order who 
refused to be enticed out by the sunshine which graced our 



Digitized by 



Uoogle 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



48 



second meet. Not that energy was wanting in the South 
lEast, but the energy was localized, and confined to a few. 
The O'Reilly rode up from Brighton ; Douglas Smith started 
from Oxford, and turned up at the Fire Station to the 
minute, looking as fresh as paint and as hard as nails ; 
and J. S. Whatton came down by road with the latest news 
of the doings of racing men at Stamford Bridge. The ride 
out was conspicuous by the entire absence of the conven- 
tional, men dropping in in dribblets of twos and threes. 
Altogether seventeen members and three visitors sat down 
to tea at the " Clayton Arms," nor was the traditional veal 
absent from the festive board ; in fact it may be looked on 
as quite a genius loci, second only to the time honoured 
ghost. Songs and recitations followed, in which H. 6. A. 
Brown, L. Potter, J. G. Oswald, Schmettau, and Stephen 
Smith were to the fore. The complete harmony of the 
scene was only marred by the absence of not a few familiar 
faces who have come to be associated with this, one of the 
favourite meets of the year. At about half-past eight the 
party broke up, and Croydon was reached without mis- 
adventure. Present : A. Barker, Q. F. Beck, C. A. Brown, 
H. G. A. Brown, R G. Francis, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, 
A. L. Potter, J. F.. Potter, L. Potter, The O'KeiUy, C. F. 
Schmettau, H. N. Sharp, D. R Smith, S. P. Smith, J. S. 
Whatton (W.), S. E Whealler, and three visitors. 

The next run is to Wrotham, in the Blackbeath country. 
That division will, it is hoped, show their appreciation by 
turning up in force. The Croydon Division will start 
at 4 punctually, and meet them at Famingham at 5.15. 
Wrotham is also easily accessible to the Sevenoaks con- 
tingent. We shall have tea at the " Bull," one of the best 
Inns in one of the most picturesque villages in Kent. 

R. G. Fbahcis, District Captain. 



W. DlSTRIOT. 

March 81st. Remembering the fact that the average 
attendance of this District at the 24 meets last season was 
6.37, some may have been disposed to think that the D.C.'s 
remarks about a " state of lethargy " in the last number of 
the Gazette, were rather uncalled for. But the fact that 
on a fine afternoon, with dry roads, and a short run, only 
one member appeared to ki&p the D.C. company, seems 
quite to justify the statement. Perhaps the run was too 
short, and those to Chenies and Leith Hill will show a better 
attendance. Let us hope so. 

The Western members got to Harrow about 5.30, and had 
just made enquiries about tea, when Alison appeared from 
the opposite direction. The view from the churchyard was 
beautifully clear. The "King's Head " gave us a capital two 
shilling meat tea, and a very pleasant evening was spent 
afterwards in company with some musical members of the 
Chiswick Club. Altogether it was voted a very enjoyable 
little run. Present : J. W. Alison, J. W. Langmore, and 
H. C. PiQOTT, District Captain. 



THE ROAD TRIAL. 
I shall be glad to receive the names of any gentlemen 
who will kindly volunteer to time the competitors on Whit- 
Monday at any of the following stations, and to learn at 
which place they will undertake to be present 

Devizes 21 miles from Bath. 

Marlboro' Hill 85 II II II 

Newbmry 68 ii n n 

Reading 69 ti n u 

Maidenhead 88 m h u 

Sloogh — - II II II 

AsHLET W. Ba£BETT, Captain. 

THE LATE CHARLES TAYLOR. 

I cannot let the sad news of Charles Taylor's death go by 
without writing a few lines — which I feel sure will be 
thoroughly endorsed by all who knew him — as to his many 
admirable qualities. 

Mr. Charles Taylor joined the L.B.C. when it was auite 
in its infancy, and continued until his lamented deatn to 
be one of the few who, from such an early period as 1875, 
took a lively and thorough interest in all its doings. He 
was a firm supporter of the S.W. Division, and his genial 
face was well Known in his Division. So many Club Runs 
had he attended, that at last a S.W..Run was not looked 
upon as complete without the pleasant jovial face of 
Cnarles Taylor. 

I have had the pleasure of two short tours in his company, 
and never in all my 'cycling experience have I come across 
a more genuine, opeuhearted, and unselfish companion ; 
and now that he has departed this life I feel, with his other 
companions, that we have lost a friend of no mean value, 
and one whose like we may not often meet again. 

W. T. Hill. 

OUR FRANCO-SWISS TOUR OP 1882. 
(Continued from p. 38, and concluded.) 
Early the next morning M. and B. were off to the Paul- 
horn. W.'s feet having given way a bit with the two heavy 
days' walking, it was not prudent for him to attempt 
another stiff day, so he and L. stayed behind. Leaving 
the valley close by the B&r we soon commenced the 
ascent in earnest. Our guide, the same that we had 
on the glacier, seemed determined to test our abilities 
to the utmost, for, scornfully disregarding the paths, 
he marched us straight away up the side of the moun- 
tain. We covered the first 2000 feet in the hour, and 
at this rate of progression were soon amongst the snow. 
In places it was frozen hard and the going was capital, but 
as we neared the top it was not only soft but deep (about 
five feet) as well, and we plunged about a good deal. 
Arriving at the summit (8803 feet) there were too many 
clouds about to admit of our seeing much of the splendid 
panorama with which we ought to have been rewar^ied, but 
we saw quite enough to make us wish for more. After 
hoisting the L.B.C. colours, lunch was the order of the day, 
and luckily we had brought it with us, for the inn was 
deserted, only an outbuilding being left open for the shelter 
of travellers. It was freezing hard, and it was only by 
keeping on the move that we were able to maintain the 
circulation. In these mountain expeditions we derived 
great benefit and instruction from an aneroid B. had 



Digitized by 



44 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



brought with him. Several times during the earlier and 
wetter stages of our trip we thought seriously of heaving 
this "Jonah" overboard, but could not quite agree whether 
it was the barometer or the sun-hats that attracted the 
rain, so both were spared, and in the end both paid for the 
trouble of transport. Our downward route was varied by 
striking towards the Great Scheideck. This change gave 
us the full benefit of the snow. Where the surface was 
frozen hard we got along merrily, glissading down the 
steeper slopes like express trains ; but for a greater portion 
of the way the upper crust was so fragile that it let us 
through at nearly every step, rasping our shins sweetly in 
the process. Presently we swung down an almost perpen- 
dicular piece of greasy turf, and passing close by the fine 
Muhlbach Fall after a while rejoined the valley. W. and 
L. had been having a good time of it. After a turn at 
practice with a chamois rifle of the Swiss military type 
they joined a shooting party for the afternoon, but did not 
meet with any very marked success^ although seven guns 
and two dogs were on the war path. 

The time had come for us to commence our homeward 
journey, so the next morning we got out our neglected 
cycles, and prepared ourselves to depart from the moun- 
tains amongst which we had spent so many happy hours. 
An ancient writer says, " Call no man happy until he is 
dead we say, after a fair share of experience, " Consider 
no hotel satisfactory until the bill comes." The " Hotel 
de rOurs " stood even this test most satisfactorily. Our 
comfort had been studied in every way, and the charges 
were most moderate. After cordial " good byes " from our 
obliging hosts (the brothers Boss), we commenced the 12^ 
miles descent to Interlaken. Little did we think that, as 
we reluctantly took our last look at Orindelwald, before a 
month had elapsed this pleasant little village would be 
devastated by a hurricane the like of which fortunately is 
not often seen in Europe. 

From Interlaken we ran close alongside the Lake of Thun, 
a pretty ride over the best piece of road we had seen in 
Switzerland. We spent some little time in Thun examining 
the quaint streets and shops, getting photos, etc., and after 
lunch went on to Berne. There is always a feeling of 
melancholy as the mountains are one by one dropped 
behind, and we experienced the truth of the lines— ^ 

" Ab when the traveUer, with reluctant feet, 
Prom Alpine Bummits pasaeg to the plain, 
Turns and looks upward from the vale, to greet 
The Eiger or the Jungfrau once again, 
Towering above the snow-capped mountain chain. 
So turn I lovingly 

An uneventful ride brought us to the top of the descent 
into Berne (47^). Prom this spot the view of the city is 
most striking. Before entering the town we had a look at 
the famous bears. They look jolly enough, and so they 
ought to, considering the comfortable annuities they enjoy. 
Walking over the pave to the hotel (Schweizerhof), a dog 



took an affection to the doctor's calves. One subtle 
insinuation of his toe beneath the brute's nether jaw and 
the animal, turning a somersault in the air, landed on 
his back in the middle of the stream that runs down the 
main street ; (exit dog). 

Friday saw the division of our party. Morris, our guide, 
philosopher, friend, and banker, (leaving the rest of us to 
push on to Neuch^tel to complete our Swiss round), having 
time to spare returned to Orindelwald, where he had a very 
jolly time of it climbing, walking, and chamois-hunting ; 
the only drawback being that unfortunately, by the up- 
setting of a dogcart into the river, he lost his^multum the 
contents of his portmanteau and his overcoat — a catastrophe 
which at one fell swoop reduced his wearing apparel to the 
clothes he stood up in. We, the survivors, riding by a 
cross country route, reached Neuch&tel safely, (our friend 
the "tyke," whose house we had to pass, not being at 
home), and left by the afternoon train for Paris. Proceeding 
to Dieppe, we crossed by the day boat and landed at 
Newhaven between nine and ten p.m. W. went up to 
town by the boat train, leaving the doctor and B. to enjoy 
a much needed night's repose, and to ride home the 
next day. 

Our little story is ended, and there only remains to add 
a few words for the benefit of those readers who have not 
as yet bicycled on the other side of the silver streak. In 
England the touring cyclist meets with but scant civility. 
He often deems himself lucky if a native hurls at him a 
hard word or a coarse jest instead of a half brick. The 
hotel landlord loves him not ; his cycle is consigned to the 
sweetly smelling stable, and himself very often to the attic. 
But cross the channel — how differently we are treated. 
The labourer leaves off breaking his stones to raise his hat ; 
the street boy grins and wishes bon voyage; the sentinel 
presents arms ; the officer salutes the uniform ; the village 
priest politely bows ; whilst the hotel proprietor, all smUes, 
stands our cycles in the hall, or perhaps in a spare salle ct 
manger, and produces the best of everything for the 
"gentlemen with the velocipedes." If, then, you like the 
description^ go next summer and try for yourself. 

A.E. B. 



THE EASTER RUN FROM BATH. 
In spite of the biting N.E. wind, the party found by the 
Captain at the "White Lion" on Sunday evening was 
larger than is usually collected there at Easter. There 
were H. 0. A. Brown and Do.uglas Smith, who had ridden 
down by easy stages ; A. S. Morris and Hewitt, who had 
been riding in company for the two previous days ; H. L. 
Ryan, who had ridden down alone; while Charles Newman, 
Barker, and Walter Meyer had accompanied the Captain 
in a circuitous archaeological ramble. Of the doings of this 
last party prior to its arrival at Bath something may be 
said. Its rendezvous on the evening of Good Friday was 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



45 



Winchester, and there were to be found about 10 p.m., 
fighting their battles o'er attain in the smoking room of the 
" George " hotel, John Kinder, Fred Williams, Barker, Chas. 
Newman, Meyer, and the Captain. The first three men 
had ridden straight down before the wind, through Alton, 
and talked much of mighty flies down never-ending hills ; 
Meyer had travelled alone for the most part, while Newman 
and the other man had run through Silchester and Basing- 
stoke. At the former place they had visited the ruins of 
Calleva, the lately explored Boman city on the estate of 
the Duke of Wellington, but the terribly cold wind pre- 
vented them from staying long in its deserted streets. The 
recently exhumed tesselated pavements are now very per- 
fect, but it is to be feared that the weather and the earth- 
worms will ere long serve to break them up. The bronze 
and iron implements exhibited in the small museum are few 
in number and of no very great interest, but probably the 
best specimens are removed and shown elsewhere. A handy 
guide-book to the place might also with advantage be placed 
at the disposal of visitors — ^the more so since at present the 
only source of information is a resident rustic of apoplectic 
appearance and intemperate habits. On the following day, 
Saturday, a short run only was made, from Winchester to 
Salisbury; so short, indeed, was it, that the two Flyers were 
compelled to expend their exuberant energy in walking till 
midnight around the Cathedral city. The two married men 
trained home, greatly to their companions' regret, leaving 
Meyer and the Captain to attend evening service and the 
Turkish Baths. On the following day Bath was reached, 
after riding through Amesbury and across the Plain. The 
ruins of Old Sarum Castle were scaled, and mighty steep 
they were. This is now a table mountain ; but before 
reaching its top a deep fosse has to be crossed. Unfortu- 
nately the hill is surrounded by arable land, and the 
suspicious inhabitants guard it so jealously that any 
assault, to be successful, must be planned and executed 
with much vigour and skill. Unaware of our danger, we 
were descending carelessly and in happy ignorance of our 
peril, when our right front was attacked by a formidable 
person with a large stick, who was afterwards discovered 
to be an uncle of two small boys that had guided us across 
his fields. The latter were rewarded with sixpence for so 
doing, while their angry relative was subsequently appeased 
with beer at a neighbouring inn. Before reaching the 
bottom of the lower slope our flank was turned and retreat 
almost cut off by more agriculturists. A bold stand, how- 
ever, was made, and Amesbury at length was reached with 
thankful hearts. There can be no doubt that, though 
Salisbury may be dull, its surrounding inhabitants are 
most truculent and far from simple. Future visitors to its 
old castle had best make their explorations under cover of 
darkness. This at least is the opinion of one of our party 
not unversed in the wily strategies of savage warfare. Over 
the Plain the air was keen, cold, and clear, as it always is. 



Stonehenge was sighted, but not visited, though Tambury 
Castle was well explored. Then a hare was coursed, but 
unsuccessfully, and Bath at length reached in good time 
for dinner and a subsequent stroll. On Monday morning 
a start was effected at eight o'clock, but unfortunately 
without Walter Meyer, who had scalded his foot rather 
severely by an unfortunate accident. The oolite was 
sticky and so greasy that in Denizes Morris fell and had 
to train home. The party soon tailed out, as sauve 
qui pent seems always the motto on the via sacra. 
Smith and Hewitt about Silbury Mound disappeared, 
though, as the tombstones say, they were not lost, but 
gone before, since at Reading Hewitt was reported to be 
"still plugging Douglas Smith." Later accounts from 
Oxford relate that the latter reached Maidenhead in 
7 hr. 5 min., and then rode on to Oxford (1 14 miles), the 
latter part against what was described as a "roaring 
tempest." The others reached home safely by various 
means and at various times, Newman riding all the way up 
with that profound contempt for the train that always 
characterises him, others of weaker moral fibre not dis- 
daining its aid ; and one there was, since this narrative is 
nothing if not truthful, who scorned not to ride therein 
from Keading to Paddington. The name of this degenerate 
shall never be revealed by the veracious, and, since his 
Easter holiday, voracious historian of this Easter run to 
Bath. A. W. B. 

EASTER RUNS. 

On Easter Monday, A. Lloyd started from Walthamstow 
at 3 a.m., and rode through Colchester and Ipswich 'to 
Stratford St. Andrew, Suffolk (85). Returning home by 
the same road he was caught in a snowstorm near Chelmsford, 
but continued till the gathering darkness, and the depth of 
the snow, obliged him to seek refuge in a wayside inn. 
Distance ridden, 147 miles. 



R. B. and S. G. Hough started from Eew Bridge at 8 p.m. 
on Thursday, with E. D. Sewell, and were blown down with 
the dust to Reading, where they stayed the night. Next 
day, B. D. Sewell left them, and they proceeded to Bath. 
On Saturday they rode over bad roads to Warminster, 
thence good to Salisbury, where they met Price and Lown, 
with whom they went on to Bournemouth, meeting 
E. D. Sewell and a friend. Stopped there over the Sunday, 
riding home with Sewell and friend through Southampton 
and Basingstoke on the Monday. Total Distance, 286 miles. 

Oliver Thorn rode to Newbury on Friday, and next day 
on to Hungerford, back to Newbury, then to Shaw, Hamp- 
stead Norris, Goring Bridge and Heath, Reading, Maiden- 
head, and home. Roads in splendid condition^ and most 
pleasantly varied country. 



Digitized by Google 



46 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



A. H. Koch, Alison, Hindley, Price, Lown, and McCuUum 
Hill started from Eew on Friday morning, and rode through 
Staines, Windsor Great Park, Wokingham (lunch), Sil- 
chester (old Koman remains of which are wonderful), and 
on to Newbury for the night. On Saturday, A. H. Koch, 
Alison, and Hindley parted with the rest and rode to 
Hungerford, Savernake Forest, CoUingboume, Ducis, to 
Amesbury and Stonehenge, thence back to Amesbury and 
on to Salisbury, where they stopped the night. From here 
to Romsey and Winchester, and thence through Titchbome 
to Alton for the night Home on Monday by Farnham, 
Aldershot, Ghobham, Ghertsey, Hounslow, etc. About 
230 miles. 

■ ■■ 

ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The racing season has £et in with its usual severity. 
Bank Holiday witnessed a large number of race meetings, 

and the official handicapper had his hands full. 

• ••••• 

Last year's scratch men were not very successful At 
Coventry, Lowndes could not beat 3 min. 5 sees, in his 
heat, the final being won by Auster of the Speedwell with 

twenty-five yards start in 2 min. 58^ sees. 

• ••«•• 

At Leicester, Moore, the One and Twenty-five Mile 
Ghampion, was second in the three miles, taking over ten 
minutes to cover the distance ; and at Brighton, Gaskell 
from scratch could not do anything in either the one or 
three miles, his three mile time being over 10 min. 15 sees. 
The final of the open mile was won in 2 min. 54 sees, by a 
local man with 120 yards start. 

At Taunton, Whish and Fry both failed to come off. 
J. R. Walter, of Ours and the O.U.Bi.G., took second prize 
in the five miles with 400 yards start, the time being slow. 

The Fifty Mile Professional Ghampionship at Leicester 
was won easily by the Frenchman, De Civry, in 3 hrs. 
13 min. 14 sees ; but in the Ten Mile Ghampionship he 
was quite outpaced, and Howell won a good race by three 

yards from Wood of Leicester in 33 min. 34} sec. 

• « • • ~ • • 

The Executive of the B.TJ. have elected A. R. Sheppee, 
of the Homsey B.G., their Ghairman ; Hampton Roberts 
continues Librarian ; and H. R. Reynolds is still responsible 

for all the dangerous hills in the country. 

• • • • • • 

6. P. Goleman has been appointed Official Timekeeper 
to the B.U. 

As the touring season will soon begin, members should 
know that the B.U. Reference Library is open free every 
Monday and Friday, from 6.30 to 8.30 p.m. It contains 
the 1-inch ordnance survey of the whole of England, as 
well as every road-book that has yet appeared, and bound 
volumes of all bicycling literature. 



The first Spring Meeting of the L.A.G. at Stamford 
Bridge last Saturday resulted in another win for a L.B.G. 
man, Buckley easily securing first prize in the mile handicap 
with twenty-five yards start, in the fast time of 2 min. 
54| sees. 0. Thorn, with seventy yards, ran second to 
Buckley in his heat, and F. L Adam was third in the same 
heat. Wyndham and Leeds also ran. 

Oaskell was scratch, but could do no better than about 
3 min. 5 sec. Mr. Griffin's handicapping was slightly 
eccentric ; F. L. Adam was asked to give Buckley ten 
yards ! The three heats were processions, and the final 
was won very easily, Medcalf (95 yards) being second, and 
H. F. Wilson (75) third. 

The Fbokt Wheel Hub. 



A NOTE OF INTERROGATION. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sib, — Does the down of youth adorn the upper lip of 
J. S. W., or do the snowy locks of age enframe a wrinkled 
face? Is it as a simple lad, or is it aa a miserable misogynist 
that he has involved the wrath of Saint Valentine by 
addressing verses to the sterner sex ? — ^verses, too, not in 
the language of love, but in that of ancient Rome and 
Greece. 

Oh ! J. S. W., what a waU of woe went up from female 
relatives of the members of the L.B.G., when they found 
within the innocent pages of the Gazette something tliat 
they could not understand. Tes, there was the sharpest 
prick that goaded us to madness. Tou will perhaps remark, 
we might have asked to have them translated. This is my 
experience, and it is far from a solitary one. I asked a 
relative — a solicitor in large practice. He had forgotten 
his Latin ! I sneezed twice, so sent for a medical man of 
great renown. He had forgotten his Latin I ! I provided 
a dainty dinner, and invited a barrister. He had forgotten 
his Latin ! ! ! I bought some jam tarts and sent for a 
schoolboy. He did not learn Latin ! ! ! ! I was baffled, 
but not defeated. Armed with Smith's smaller Latin 
Dictionary, I began upon No. 1. But, alas ! many of the 
words could not be found, and some were spelled rather 
differently. No matter! On I went, and this is the 
result of my labours : 

When swiftly along a diuty oonne 

A body of men 

Impetuonsly seek a goal, 

To aid yourself avoid their wheels. 

If you would win a famous victory. 

That sounds all right, and no doubt Horace bought his 
experience in a chariot race, as he flourished rather before 
the age of bicycles. I pass at once to No. 8. This is, 
I should think, dog Latin, and " Procum " is the strange 
name of the dog. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



47 



The leader of a recent Club Bun is doabilesB a tease, and 
was justly punished for irritating poor " Frocum." There- 
fore the line— 

" Procom bit yon my boM." 
If my translations are not correct, pity rather than blame 
me, for having dug amongst a cemeteiy of a dead language 
only to bring up bones that will not fit Ton may perhaps 
think this is written with a quill from the porcupine (Ham- 
let's, not Sir T. Browne's), but it is not so.] 

My spirit is sad, not firetfuL If-Latin and if Oreek 
appear in the first number of a new edition — or it may be 
more correct to say a newly edited Gazette — where, oh ! 
where will it cease? Equations and logarithms will be 
succeeded by a little dentistry, or extraction of roots. 
Tours will be abandoned; the racing path a cindery desert; 
and instead of animated discussions on hubs and backbones, 
each man will sit amongst the ruins of his machine, vainly 
endeavouring to square the circle of his spokeless wheels ! 

Can viBioDB of prophetic woe 

To deeper depths of dtdlnen go ? 

A Yoioe from Eastcheap echoes " No ! ** 

A. W. Omah. 

[Note. — The Editor offers his most humble apologies to his 
fair contributor for going beyond the limits even of the 
" Higher Education of Women." His excuse is that the 
Gazette is addressed mainly to cultured males, and it is 
matter of notoriety that every candidate for the L.B.G. 
is required to speak fluently at least six languages, of 
which three must be dead ones. The Oazettb, however, 
will never be dull so long as it is enlivened by the pen of 
A, W. Oman.— Ed.] 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and FUny deliyer it that the pocpentlne casteth off his qoiUs 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affinneth it a 
point of foUy to beUeve it"— Sir T. Browns. 

I hear from Salisbury that some of our touring members 
like their oysters a little mixed. 

• •••«• 

The N.E. had the pleasure of introducing the Captain to 
Chingford Hill, High Beech, and other obscure parts of the 
North-East on Saturday. I hear that half the District 
rode up Chingford Hill in magnificent form, and nearly 
scrambled to the summit of the bed of a waterfall at 
Fainnead that calls itself a road. 

I am glad to hear that the N.E. District Captain and 
the Editor have made up their little differences, and entered 
into a defensive treaty " for taking of their dolcs/ar niente,** 
The leading article is, ** that the two contracting parties 
will dismount together at the foot of every hill they may 
meet when out on a run and walk up the same, notwith- 
standing any. rash attempt of the Captain and Sub-Editor 
to break a Uood vessel by riding up the said hills." 



J. R. Walter scored the first prize for the Club this year 
at Taunton on Easter Monday. 

• ••••• 

There is weeping and wailing in the editorial sanctum 
over the terrible muddle the West District Captain's Run 
in last Gazette got into. I hear the Editor is going to 
give himself a month's warning in consequence. 

• *•••• 

N.B. — ^All the editorials are not written by the Editor. 

• ••••• 

To be elected a member of the Club on the 12th, and 
District Captain on the 22nd of the month, is about our 
quickest on record. At the same time it means that the 
new District Captain occupies a very difficult position ; and 
in wishing the West District Captain every success, I need 
hardly ask our members to make allowance for those 
difficulties. 

«*•••• 

I hear that one of our members was elected Secretary of 
the leading Swimming Club first, and elected a member 
afterwards. This beats Pigott's record. 

• ••••• 

Marlborough Hill is a good stiff one, and is veiy seldom 
ridden. On Easter Monday a local bicyclist seemed fairly 
surprised when C. Newman rode up it with ease, and 
without a swerve of his wheel. 

• ••••• 

It is reported, and confirmed by the Captain, that the 
N.E. D.C.'s lamp was alight without intermission from 
Cheshunt to Walthamstow. The report is unlikely on the 
face of it, but the police are investigating the case. 

• • • # • • 

The Joint Meet at Cheshunt had arrived at that point 
by five or six totally different routes, and all sections had 
decided to go back some other way " to avoid the loose 
stones." 

• •#«•« 

I am glad to hear that H. H. Sherriff has so far recovered 
from his accident as to be able to ride twenty miles on Easter 
Monday, and that there is some chance of his riding on 
Whit-Monday. 

It is curious to note the crowd of traditions and legends 
that now hang about our via $acra. Here is the comer, 
they tell you, where Re]molds, Thorn, and Butler fell. 
Here it was that Appleyi^ began to cut record. At this 
tree Marlborough Hill pulls every competitor out of his 
saddle. Here Wynne lost his enamelled medal From this 
cottage the ubiquitous Chippindale requisitioned tea and 
crockery for the competitors. All lovers of sport, in and 
out of the L.B.C., will rejoice that nothing has yet occurred 
to interfere with our Boad Trial, and no one can rejoice 
more at the courteous response of the London Tricycle Club 
than— -Tour omniscient, Pobcufine. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZ1<TTE. 



EACING FIXTURES. 

Rule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The following list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

April 14. — Surrey B.C. at SuAiton. 

21. — Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
28.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
28.— Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 
May 12.— Lincoln C. and P.C. Sports. 

14 — Scottish Games aud Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2. — Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — ^Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9.— C.U.Bi,C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 

13. — O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.O. at Crystal Palace. 
16.— London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
23.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapbam B.C. at Crystal Palace. 

30. — Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds^ 

Birmingham. 
30. — A. A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
30. — Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 

7. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
7. — B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One MilelVicycle 

Championships at Birmingliara. 
7. — Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
7. — ^Belgrave B.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

14. — B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships %t Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 

Palace. 

25. — Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
Sept. 15. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



EXCHANGE. LIST. 

Strong 48-inch " Challenge'* Roadster, suit those wiping 
to learn, or for first season. Will stand any amount of 
knocking about. Price £3, or exchange for bound numbers 
of Bicycling News, or other Cycling papers. Apply — H. 
H. SherriflF, Holly House, Mortlake. 

For Sale. — 50-inch '* Norwood " (Wm. Keen), in capital 
condition, bent handles, ball bearings both wheels. Cost 
over £18. Price £7.— H. H. Sherrifif, Holly House, 
Mortlake. 



GLEANINGS PROM A CLUB TEA TABLE. 

That McCullum has been seen on ttvo wheels again. 

• ••••• 

That the Bath Trial is to be hotter than ever. 

That all the Clubksracks intend running. 

• ••••• 

That our President will go into training for the event. 

• ••••• 

That the N.W. Captain has arranged for a iair wind, and 

has ordered a *' sixt;-" in consequence. 

• ••••• 

That we are going to beat record at Dunstable in May. 

That Meets are to be better attended than ever this 
season. 

• ••••• 

That in view of the last paragraph proving correct, 
District Captains are blackballing all inns not furnished 
with breakfast cups. 



A NOVEL SPIN ON THE GOODWIN SANDS 

ON A BICYCLE. 
A visitor, Mr. Palmer Dalton, a member of the London 
Bicycle Club, took a novel spin on his bicycle on the Goodwin 
Sands on Tuesday morning. They launched from the shore 
in Mr. Porter's galley " Undaunted " near the pier at five 
o'clock in the morning, this being necessary to meet a 
suitable state of the tide when the sands would be hard and 
dry. On arriving there Mr. Dalton was soon landed and 
mounted his bicycle, and took a spin for about a mile and 
half across the Goodwin, which afforded a capital track for 
the machine, the sands being as hard and solid, but much 
smoother than a trip on land. His further progress was 
stopped by one of the gullies which abound there. After 
having spent nearly an hour in the keen frosty air, Mr. 
Dalton with his boat's crew returned to the shore, where 
they arrived about eight, with appetites sufficient to enable 
them to partake of and enjoy a good breakfast. Tiie boat's 
crew consisted of three boatmen, including Mr. Geo. Porter 
as coxswain. A small bundle of the sand was secured by 
Mr. Dalton for conveyance to London. The keepers of the 
light ships were observed with their telescopes watching the 
movements of the /rentleman on his bicycle with great 
interest, and no douU wondering as to the object of his visit, 
— Kentish Telegram, 

======= ^ 

Editorial Note. — We regret that at the time of going to 
press no separate account of the N.W. run has been 
received'.'* ^ 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contribtitiqns must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E-Ct"," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and must be received not later than Tuesday, the 10th April, 
at 6 p.m. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dablino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 86, Eastcheap, London, £.0.— April 5, ISSS. 



Uoogle 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 6.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



April 12, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGB 



Onr Lftzy Friend 

AnniiAl Race Meeting . 

General Meet 

Committee 

The Road Trial 

Club Meets 



49 
50 
50 
50 
50 
51 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette'' 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesda3n3. 

OUR LAZY FRIEND. 

In recalling our expeditions — bicycling and otherwise — 
there will be few amongst us who do not remember having, 
at some time or other, undergone that extreme penance to 
an energetic soul, the being yoked with a lazy companion. 
Next to the grumbler a lazy man is perhaps the worst 
company, especially if one's tendencies lie in the opposite 
direction. The friend may be a capital fellow in all other 
respects ; he may not abuse you if the weather or roads 
turn out, as they will sometimes, execrable ; and he may 
not hold you responsible for the direction of the wind ; nay, 
he may be " as jolly as a sandboy " when rain mud and 
wind are at their worst ; but if you know him to be of an 
undoubtedly indolent disposition let no such man be 
trusted or travelled with. 

But let us suppose that you do not follow the advice 
here disinterestedly oflTered ; and you, the early riser brim- 
ming over with superabundant energy, take as your com- 
panion on a tour this friend who is a sluggard, a lotos eater, 
in fact a species of moral brake. Of course an early start 
is fixed for the first morning; and the sun has scarcely 
shown his intention of rising when, eager to be off, you 
fling off the clothes and turn from your bed into your tub. 
After much vigorous splashing you are beginning to array 
yourself in your bicycling garments when a thought strikes 



Saturday Runs 

Bicycling in Switzerland , 

Correspondence 

Racing Fixtures 

Quills ^ 

Exchange List 



PAGE 

.. 51 

.. 58 

.. 54 

.. 55 

.. 56 

.. 56 



you—" I must go and see after X." You burst precipitately 
into his room, dash up the'blinds, fling open tlie window, 
and then turn your attention to the object of your solici- 
tude. He sleeps — peaceably, and apparently undisturbed. 
But look at those tightly closed eyelids 1 and listen to those 
gentle suspirations long drawn out ! Are they real or only 
the affectations of slumber? " Now, then ! up you get 1 " 
And you yell the words into his ear in stentorian tones 
almost loud enough to waken the dead. A yawn — a stretch — 
and instead of answering briskly to your summons he only 
turns over with a faint groan. " Oh, I say, do get up ! 
It's past five, and such a lovely morning." Thus you address 
him in more conciliatory tones, and, as you think, bring 
him to book, for he answers, briskly enough, '* All right ; 
leave me, there's a good fellow. Til be down in half a 
minute." If you arc a novice in the art you will leave 
him, and will be unfeignedly astonished when you return 
in a quarter of an hour's time to find him once more wrapt 
in the arms of Morpheus or to hear him tumble out of bed 
as you turn the handle of the door. An hour or so will 
probably have been wasted by the time you have got your 
victim down stairs, though of course, as you gain in expe- 
rience, your efforts may meet with better success ; but it is 
the old story of bringing a horse to water,— you may forcibly 
eject him from his drowsy couch ; you may dowse him with 
cold water ; you may pour out upon him the vials of your 
wrath ; you may use the oblique shaft of sarcasm, or the 
direct volley of abuse ; you may silently sneer ; but you 
will never succeed in getting him up to time. Every morn- 



Digitized by 



UoogU 



50 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



ing, regularly as clockwork, there will be the same process 
to go through. And you must not imagine that when he 
is once downstairs your labours are ended. This or that 
nut will want tightening, and he has lost or mislaid his 
spanner; the machine will want oiling, and his oilcan is 
not to be found anywhere. By the time you and your 
friend are well under weigh you will feel as if you have 
done a good day's work, and be proportionately grunopy. 
But even here your troubles will not end. After every 
meal his song will be, " Just another pipe ; just another five 
minutes." Every hill-top will have a fine view, and every 
fine view furnish an occasion for a lounge and a cigarette ; 
and at last you will come actually to dread the very sight 
of a grassy bank, a shady nook, or a public-house sign, for 
fear they may remind your friend that he wants a nap or a 
drink. 

The time you had mentally apportioned to lunch and tea 
will increase to a most alarming extent. He will not be 
hurried ; and at the end of the day's march you will find 
yourself far short of your supposed destination, and with 
little to show for the day unless it be your own vexation of 
spirit. A sigh of genuine relief will probably escape your 
lips on the completion of yonr last duty for the day — ^that 
of getting your friend to bed in decent time, the difficulty 
of which will be only less than that of getting him out of it 
next morning. 

It will, I dare say, be objected that a wise man should 
adapt himself to any circumstances ; but where the adapta- 
tion involves one half of the difficulties I have attempted 
to describe, the wiser man (expirto crede) will be he who 
prefers not to wear out his very existence in attempting to 
eradicate in a few days those lazy habits his friend has 
been studiously acquiring for years. ** Dodo." 

[Note. — We shall be glad to receive a defence of the 
estimable class of individuals attacked by our esteemed 
contributor in a way suggesting that any of them who 
went touring with him had a very bad time of it. — Edd.] 



ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 

In accordance with the decision of the Annual General 
Meeting, the Annual Race Meeting will take place at the 
Crystal Palace on Saturday, 16 th June. The following 
events will come oiBf : — 

One Mile Open Handicap, 

One Mile Members n »' ^ 
Two Miles for the Ladies' C&iallenge Cup, open to 

members only. (Scratch). 
Five Miles Open. (Scratchj.) 
Ten Miles for the District CI lallenge Cup. (Scratch.) 
The 16th June is a half-crown day, but members will be 
able to obtain tickets of the Sub 
price of is. 6d, 
issues. 



-Committee at the reduced 
Further partici ilars will appear in future 

E. S. Price. 



THE GENERAL MEET. 

The arrangements made by the District Captains for the 
General Meet at HalHford on April 21st are as follows : — 

The N.E. will leave Lea Bridge Road at 3.0 sharp 
(there will be no Meet at Syborn's Comer). They will 
proceed to "Jack Straw's," where they should join the 
N.W., who meet at. that point at 4.0. The two Districts 
proceed together to Kew. 

The W. meet at the " Coach and Horses," Kew, at 5 0, 
and proceed with the N.E. and N.W. to Kingston Station. 

The S.W. meet at Kingston Station at 5.30, and ride 
with the N.R, N.W,, and W. to Halliford. 

The S.E. (Blackheath Division) meet at Lewisham Church 
at 3.15 sharp and join the Croydon Division, which leaves 
Central Croydon Station at 4.0 sharp and proceeds direct 
to Halliford. 

No District is expected to wait more than ten minutes 
for another District ; and in the case of the S.E., no law 
will be allowed by the Croydon District. 

AsHLET W. Babrett, Captain. 



COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 
9th April, the following gentlemen were elected members 
of the Club :— 

Name and AddreiM. Propoeer. Seconder. 

Wm. Richard Beyer, 9, Browns- 
wood Road, South Homsey £. L. Boyer. W. J. WIBiamB. 

Geo. Southey Hewitt, 89, Cam- 
bridge Gardens, W. H. M. Hewitt A. S. Morris. 

H. F. WiUock Ravenshaw, 
St^ Leonard's Mount, Malvern 

Link, Malvern B. P. Smith. D. R. Smith. 

Harry Soott, Wythbnm, WoodviUe 
Gardens, Barnes W. A. Smith. £. Scott 

It wa8 unanimously resolved that the name of Mr. H. R. 
Boyce be placed on the list of honorary members of the 
Club. 

It was decided that the Hon. Sec. be requested to write 
the Manager of the Crystal Palace Company recommending 
that a stand be erected as soon as possible for the accomo- 
dation of spectators at bicycle races. 

THE ROAD TRIAL. 
I shall be glad to receive the names of any gentlemen 
who will kindly volunteer to time the competitors on Whit- 
Monday at any of the following stations, and to learn at 
which place they will undertake to be present 

Devises 21 miles from Bath. 

Marlboro* Hill ... ... ••• 86 h n n 

Hungerford 44J n n n 

Newbury 58 » ii « 

Reading ... ... ... ... 69 ir ii ti 

Maidei^ead ... ... ..» 88 n n m 

Slough — M " " 

I thank Alfred Herbert for kindly ofifering to time at 
Marlboro' Hill. 

Ashley W. Babrbtt, Captain. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



61 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 





N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

BlaokheathDiyision. 


^ fLea Bridge Bd. 3.80 
•H 1 and Svboni'B Corner 
n3 N 3.45,fornpiaN8TSB. 
5* 1 ("BelL") MeetS.E. 
^ f Blackheath Div. 


Jack Straw's Cafl• 
tle"8.45andTaUy• 
bol 4.80, for Mm. 
Hill. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill HiU Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
EAaTCOTr.CShip.*) 


Kingston Station, 

4. 1 5, for ATLAJTDS 

Park and Wbt- 

BBIDOI. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbinstsad. 


'Hare &; Billet,' 8.45, 
for Ufminstib, 
Meet N.E. 


April 21. — Haixitobd. General Meet. For times and places of starting see page 50. 


^ TLea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
^ J and Sybom's Comer 
^ J 8.45, for HavsbiAo. 
< 1 ("Orange Tree.") 


"Jack Straw's Cas. 
tie" 8.45, for Rick. 
XAKSWOBTH. Meet 
W. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

RlOKKAKBWORTH. 

("Swan.") Meet 
N.W. 


^ngston Station, 
4.16, for Yiboinia 
Watbb. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Riyebhkad. 


4.15, Old Lewisham 
Church, for RiTEB- 

HEAD. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
7th April. If the whole riding force of the N.E. could 
have been concentrated in one point there would have been 
a fine muster ; as it was only eight sat down to tea, but 
the skirmishers were out far and wide, and sighted a variety 
of members from time to time. Seven members left the 
Corner, but even in Leyton Long discovered a violent 
squeak, which culminated in his hind tire coming oif, so he 
retired : the District in ignorance went easy for him for 
miles after. In Buckhurst Hill Keynes found family ties 
too strong, and retired homewards. On the hill, however, 
the Editor came to hand, and a party of six riding three 
deep, with three ex-Captains to lead, was a somewhat im- 
posing sight. At Goldings' Hill one of these ex-Captains 
treated the others worse than they care to express, as in 
breach of a solemn covenant he insisted on riding up the 
hill. Fortunately Eelsey also achieved the same effect, 
however, and they were revenged. Just after the " Wake 
Arms," Weeks and a friend on a double tri. were met, but 
refused to join, and the six rode into Epping, the leaders 
indulging in some questionable racing at the finish. The 
Editor promptly went home to tea, but the party were re- 
inforced by S. Q. Hough, C. Y. Lyne, and A. Lloyd, making 
up the eight, who rode quietly home in the cool of the 
evening by the direct road, which was fairly good for the 
first time this five years. They nearly suffered shipwreck 
by two unruly hay carts, but beyond feeling a little " all- 
overish," escaped without damage. Besides those who 
actually took part in the run, E. D. Sewell is believed to 
have gone to Epping via Chelmsford, but he did not come 
to hand in time ; Baldwin was sighted by two members, 
and Harold Smith by one riding in the vicinity. J. G. 
Fowler, too, was at Abridge, but forgot the destination of 
the run ; it is very pleasant to hear that he ijs on the road 
again. Livingston and his brother were about on a double 
tri, and are reported to have met with a nasty accident ; 
altogether we might have mustered eighteen — but we didn't. 
Present at the run or some part of it : G. H. Gibbs, S. G* 
Hough, Jolly, Keynes, Kelsey, Lloyd, Lyne, Long, Rucker, 



T. E. Scrutton, and the District Captain. Present in other 
parts of the District : Baldwin, J. G. Fowler, Livingston 
and friend, Harold Smith, and Weeks and firiend. 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



N.W. District. 
The meet at Cheshunt on March 31st was only attended 
by eight members ; but although the numbers were small 
yet we had a good run. Four members left ''Jack' Straw's 
Castle," and at Tally-ho I Corner four more men joined. 
We then went through Barnet and Potter's Bar, and turn- 
ing to the right passed to the left of Northaw and on by 
Goff's Oak to Cheshunt, where we met the N.K District at 
6.25. A good tea was provided at a very moderate rate. 
After a pleasant chat we made a start for home at eight 
o'clock by way of Theobald's Park, Forty Hill, Enfield, 
Winchmore Hill, Southgate, and Tally-ho 1 The lanes were 
very dark, but we managed to get along all right with the 
aid of our lamps, although we went a little out of our way. 
The run terminated at 10.15 p.m. Distance thirty-five 
miles. Present : AJken, Dalton, Elgood, C. L. Hill, Jackson, 
Lown, TuUoch, and W. J. Williams. 

Palmer Dalton, District Captain. 

Saturday, April 7th. We had a very jolly run to Eastcott, 
the attendance being slightly better. Our route lay through 
Burrows, where Jackson and Williams joined us, and across 
the Brent Reservoir to Frieru Farm, thence by Kingsbury, 
Kenton, Harrow Weald, Pinner Station, and Pinner Green 
to Eastcott, where Barnett, Hindley, and Stunt turned up. 
At the " Black Horse " we were well received, and had a 
very good tea at the small cost of one shilling each. This 
is an inn that should be patronised. ' After an extremely 
jovial tea we started home at 7.45 p.m., and kept a steady 
pace all the way home via Pinner, Harrow, Kenton, and 
The Hyde, the run terminating at 9.15 p.m. The roads on 
the whole were pretty good, but near Harrow care is 
necessary, owing to the Metropolitan Railway extension 
having destroyed the road. Distance twenty-seven miles. 
Present : Alison, Barnett, Dalton, C. L. Hill, Hindley, 



Digitized by 



52 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Jackson, Lown, Stunt, Tulloch, W. J. Williams, and one 
visitor. Palmer Dalton, District Captain. 



W. District. 

Saturday, 7th April. Four members assembled at 
Savernake Cottage for the start vrhich uras made at 
4.15 p.m. After going a short distance we came up with 
Hawley, who had ridden from Hampstead in " extra fast 
time." The Richmond road was fouud to be scarcely 
rideable owing to the tramways — the curse of this district — 
and Indian file had to be resorted to for a couple of miles. 
At Richmond 0. Thorn was waiting for us. We followed 
the direct road to Ripley tnd Kingston, Esher, and Cobham, 
which requires no description from me, as being too well 
known by everyone who has ever crossed the modern 
velocipede. Passing Cobham, several machines were con- 
spicuous outside the " White Lion," and recognised as 
belonging to the S.W., but how they got there history does 
not relate, for we could not believe that the owners of these 
machines were inside the hostelry which is only eight miles 
from the start. I would remark that the pace was more 
conducive to pain than pleasure, as the rivalry of Leeds and 
Thorn knew no bounds, and required an extra effort on the 
part of the D.C. to maintain his position at the head of the 
team. (Query. — Would it not be better for D.Cs. to ride 
last instead of first ? ) Fourteen in all sat down to a good 
tea at the " Anchor." Afterwards, Hawley, Thorn, and 
Naylor departed for Aldershot, and the main body for town. 
An enjoyable ride home took place, marred only by the 
involuntary dismounting'of Meyer at Surbiton, who, however, 
fortunately escaped with a shaking only. We parted with 
the S.W. at Kingston, and continuing on reached Richmond, 
where the D.C. left the major portion consisting of Whattons, 
Meyer, and Langmore, and rode via St. Margarets, Isleworth, 
and Brentford to Acton, thus avoiding theexecrable Richmond 
road. Distance 43 miles. Roads very dusty and stony at 
Ham and Red Hill. Present ; J. W. Langmore, W. Meyer, 
0. Thorn, E. Naylor, J. S. Whatton, A. B. W. Whatton, 
E. Scott, Leeds, J. D. Belfield, (W.) A. Hawley, (N.W.) 
Gruggen, A. E. Buckler, Ryan, (S.W.) ; and 

H. C. PiGOTT, District Captain. 
N.B. — Please note that on special recommendation the 
Black Horse " will be the rendezvous at Eastcott, and not 
the " Ship " as previously stated. 

S.W. District. 
The meeting at Kingston Station on Saturday consisted 
of three members of the West — ^including a tricyclist — and 
three S.W. men, a fair average contingent for us ; and if 
the two visitors who had promised to favour us had fulfilled 
their engagement, we should have indeed made a goodly 
show ! The tricyclist, starting first, led the way at a good 
speed to Cobham, where we waited for a possible contingent 
from the West District, which, it was understood, was 



coming in considerable force. We had not long to wait 
here before the West arrived in close order, six strong, 
evidently bent upon being first at Ripley, for in taking 
advantage of the lead they gained by not stopping, they 
are to be congratulated upon the very successful and highly 
creditable riding they displayed in maintaining it until 

tibbles" was reached at about 5.45 p.m., where the two 
districts met very shortly afterwards. Thirteen members 
and one visitor sat down to a good and plentiful tea, which 
apparently gave very general satis&ction at a minimum 
outlay of Is. 3d. per head. About 8 p.m. the company 
began to separate, and as several members — ^tempted by 
the very favourable weather — elected to continue their 
rural researches further, only some eight men remained to 
return to Kingston. This, with only one trifling misad- 
venture, was accomplished in a little over an hour. Distance 
from Kingston 24 miles. Members present : A. E. Buckler, 
A. L. Gruggen, H. S. Ryan, and R. M. Gruggen, etc. 

The run next Saturday is to Oatlands Park, near which 
is situate a very interesting cave, most elaborately and 
tastefully decorated with shells of almost endless variety, 
and arranged in elaborate devices at, I understand, fabu- 
lous expense. This was visited by us last year, and was 
greatly appreciated ; after which we go on to Wey bridge 
for tea, where we again hope for a good muster. 



S.E. District. 
Six men started from Croydon on Saturday, under a 
bright sky, for Wrotham. Farningham was reached vid 
Orpington and Birchwood Corner, but Alfred Herbert had 
been left inhaling the healthy breezes on Hayes Common. 
The Blackheath Division were found waiting on the bridge, 
and our numbers would have been increased by five had not 
Stephen Smith and Morley been obliged to turn homewards. 
The opposing heights were scaled in loose order, and after 
falling in with the Sevenoaks contingent the main body 
reached Wrotham about seven o'clock, where H. R. Reynolds 
was found waiting. A capital tea was provided at the 
Bull," but we had no time to linger ; so at half-past eight 
lamps were lighted, and we made the best of our way 
homewards by Ightham, Seal, and the " Polhill Arms." 
Unfortunately, the looseness of the roads in places and the 
absence of a moon delayed us considerably, but the different 
sections eventually reached home safely before midnight. 
Present : G. F. Beck, A. Day, Alfred Herbert, S. Herbert, 
H. G. Morgan, A. Morley, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, 
H. R. Reynolds, F. B. Smith, D. R. Smith, S. P. Smith, 
S. E. Whealler, C. Wigan, R. C. Willis, four visitors, and 
R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

The Captain has kindly promised to be present at our 
next Run to East Grinstead ; and in order to give him a 
hearty welcome, members are requested to make a special 
effort to attend the Meet. 



Digitized by 



I 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



53 



The Axexutraase. 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(OONTINUID FBOM FAGB 96.) 

The Rigi, or northern side of the lake, naturally divides 
itself into two sections, owing to the absence of a road 
berween Vitznau and Gersau. 

(1.) 

— Lucerne. 

5i - Meggen. 

Si KliBanacht. 

104 Greppen. 

12| Weggia. 

16 Vitznau. 

(2.) 

<— Geraau 

4^ Brnnnen < 

8^ Sislkon 

12i Fluelen 

This is by far the most interesting side of the lake, and 
can be traversed by a bicycle the whole way except along 
the "Upper Nose" between Vitznau and Gersau, where 
the boat must be taken. Two miles out of Lucerne the 
road forks : you take the right-hand road nearest the lake. 
The map will show you a shorter road turning up over the 
hill a little beyond this fork, and as yott look at the road 
itself from the fork it has all the appearance of being 
the main road, with telegraph posts etc. along it : do not 
however be enticed by it. Both roads have to mount, but 
you can easily ride up the hill on the road nearest the lake ; 
the other is steeper and longer, and it is moreover a com- 
paratively new road which has evidently never come into 
fashionable use, for the stones are all on it this year with 
grass growing between them just exactly as they were two 
years ago^ rendering the descent on the other side an 
extremely uncomfortable piece of riding. In Elissnacht the 
way is troublesome, as you are apt to bear too soon to the 
right and so get down to the steamer stage from which you 
have to come back again. I can only give as a general 
direction to make a tolerably wide sweep to your left 
through the town. The proper turn to the right begins to 
mount and will take you a bit above the lake. You can 
continue in the saddle to Greppen, but here (at a bend by 
a church) you will find the road rough as well as steep, and 
a walk of half a mile or so is desirable. This is the only 
bit on either side of the lake necessitating a dismount. 
The hill down to Weggis is nowhere very steep, but there 
are generally a lot of foot passengers about. Both it and 
the absolutely level 3^ miles to Vitznau are splendid riding. 
Next to the Axenstrasse, which will be described presently, 
this is the loveliest bit of road I know -anywhere ; in one 
respect, perhaps, it is superior to the Axenstrasse, as you 
are riding quite close to the water's edge all the way, — so 
close in fact that one day, when the lake was a little rough, 
I got quite a splashing from the waves. Although I shall 
always contend that having regard to the middle and far 
distances the views on the Lake of Than are superior to 



anything else in Switzerland, there can be no question that 
as regards the near distance the Lake of Lucerne, with its 
precipitous banks and its incessant changes of shape and 
colour, is the most picturesque of all ; and it is nowhere 
seen to subh advantage as from a bicycle. At Vitznau you 
ean leave your machine and steam up the Bigi to lunch if 
the day be fine ; but it is not an entertaining expedition in 
bad weather. It will give some notion of what the weather 
has been this year in Switzerland when I state that we were 
twelve days at Lucerne without once seeing the top of the 
Rigi. 

The road between Gersau and Brunnen is well made, but 
exposed to frequent landslips : you must not therefore be 
surprised at coming across bits of new road in a temporarily 
unrideable condition, and I have a very vivid recollection 
two years ago of some decidedly deep extemporised water 
channels, one of which very nearly gave me "a buckler." 
The road from Brunnen to Fluelen is best known as the 
''Axenstrasse," and it is perhaps unrivalled as regards both 
nature and art. It is carried along the precipitous eastern 
bank of the Bay of Uri (as the head of the lake is called), 
in a succession of ups and downs, twists and turns, — along 
rocks so steep that in many, places you look direct down 
into the blue water often $ome 500 feet below you. The 
road is safer than most for riding purposes, for being in 
such an excessively dangerous situation greater care has 
been taken to protect its edges with a continuous low stone 
wall, so that no bad carriage accident is likely to occur 
In several places the road is carried actually through the 
cliffs by tunnels. These can all be ridden, but you must sit 
well back and keep a firm hold of your machine. Whether 
it is due to the winter snows being blown into them and 
drifting in uuequal masses or not I cannot tell, but the 
road inside these tunnels consists of a succession of hillocks 
and hollows, over which you go "bump, bump, bump" in 
the dark in a style sufiicient to frighten you out of your 
saddle if you did not know that it was possible to surmount 
them in safety. The first time I rode through them two 
years ago was at the end of a long and very fatiguing day 
on the St. GoUiard, and I was so tired that I determined 
nothing whatever should induce me to dismount, and I 
would sooner be spilt if it came to that ; hence I learnt, what 
otherwise I might not have learnt to this day, that there is 
no occasion to be alarmed at these tunnels. The principal 
dip in the ride is down to the village of Sisikon, where, as at 
Brunnen and Fluelen, you are at the level of the lake. The 
intervening rise on either side is, I should guess, about 500 
feet or perhaps more, but I have not been able to ascertain 
it accurately. The surface of the road, except the tunnels 
and a few yards here and there, is simply splendid. When 
we were on it the other day we had taken the steamer to 
Fluelen. The steamer was due at Fluelen at 3.0, but did 
not get in till 3.5. After disembarking its passengers and 
taking a fresh load on, it was to start again at 3.20 and go 



Digitized by 



Google 











54 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 




direct back to Brunnen in a perfectly straight course of 6;^ 
miles. They are fast boats, and our course was not only If 
miles longer and all hilly, but we had a strong wind against 
us. We were also obliged to dismount and wait at least 
three minutes at a level crossing for the St. Gothard express. 
Nevertheless, we were on the landing-stage at Brunnen 
waiting for the steamer 17 minutes before it came up, 
having done the 8 miles — hills, wind, tunnels, and train 
notwithstanding — in 42 minutes. This would have been 
impossible but for the excellence of the surface. I do not 
know whether the steamer officials had any bets on the sub- 
ject this time, but they were most utterly incredulous when 
we told them at Flueleu that they would have to pick us 
up again at Brunnen, and when they saw us on the landing- 
stage their faces wore very much the same expression as that 
of a country farmer whom a conjuror has invited to partake 
of a plum pudding brought out of his own hat with bis 
watch in the middle of it. On the occasion of this ride we 
put a Swiss dog to flight, for a wonder. He was coming 
along the road towards us, but on seeing us instantly put his 
tail between his legs and fled precipitately for nearly three 
miles : we saw him at every distant corner squinting round 
to see if we were coming, and the moment we appeared 
down went the tail and ofi* he scampered again till he Anally 
took refuge at the back of a chalet which was, I presume, 
his home ; he was so thoroughly frightened that he did not 
even come out and bark at us after we had passed, as most 
pot-valiant hounds would do. 

The Axenstrasse is a portion of the road leading by the 
St. Gothard Pass into Italy. Names, distances, and levels 
of this famous coach road are easily ascertainable from 
Baedeker. It is of course perfectly possible in midsummer 
to cross into Italy with a bicycle by this road or by the 
Simplon, but a great deal of dismounting will have to be 
encountered. These two roads, as well as the Bhone valley 
road and the Furka Pass at the head of it, are in many 
places mended with very inferior stuflF, — miscellaneous kind 
of stone rubbish fished out of the nearest glacier stream, — 
and they wear badly in consequence. The more eastern 
passes into Italy are much firmer and better. The 
St. Gothard road does not begin to rise steeply and con- 
tinuously until you leave Amsteg, which is 11 miles beyond 
Fluelen and 350 feet above it. From this point to the 
summit of the pass the distance is 23 miles and the rise 
5200 feet, an average or resultant gradient of 1 in 23, which 
means (allowing for some of the miles being level or even 
occasionally down hill) that you will have 15 miles or so 
with a gradient varying from 1 in 15 to 1 in 20. Were 
the surface of the road good, no doubt a good proportion, 
perhaps half this distance, might be covered in the saddle ; 
but though some bits of the road are fair enough, its general 
character is inferior, so that you would not probably get 
more than five or six miles of riding the whole way, and that 
only in fragments involving constant dismounts. Two years 


ago, when I was on it, the road was no doubt in an excep- 
tionally bad and dangerous condition, owing to the constant 
traffic of heavy wagons carrying stone and iron for the 
construction of the railway ; the opening, however, of 
the latter, with its consequent diminution of the coach 
traffic, weakens the chance of any permanent improvement 
in the condition of the road, as the authorities have now less 
interest in maintaining it than they had before. Altogether, 
therefore, to those who meditate a descent into Italy my 
advice would be to pack self and machine in the train at 
Amsteg and get out at Airolo. It will be better to select one 
of the stopping trains and not the express, as the luggage- 
vans will be less crowded. The descent from Airolo to Bodio, 
where the valley of the Ticino begins to be fairly level, is 2800 
feet (distance 20 miles), and I could see from the line this 
summer that some rough bits of road would have to be 
encountered. In such descents as these however occasional 
dismounts would in any case be required for the purpose of 
cooling your brake. The roads in North Italy, especially 
about the lakes, are exceedingly good ; but in summer in a 
dry season they will be found ver^ dusty, and in many 
cases there is a deficiency of shade about them. They 
would be far better riding in April, May, the latter part of 
September and October, than in the intervening months. 

Gerabd F. Cobb. 

Thunerhof, Thun, August, 1882. 

(To be continued,) 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
Sib, — May I fill a comer of your valuable and widely 
circulated periodical, (the butterman takes it every week 
and sends it wrapped round my morning sausage), with a 
suggestion that will give the Committee fits, and make the 
leader of the Conservative Opposition, (need I say I allude 
to the North-East District Captain), his hair stand on end ? 
It is this, sir. We have some very good long-distance 
riders in t)ur club. The record on roads for twenty-four 
hours is in a very unsatisfactory state. Could not the Club, 
about three weeks after Whit Monday, organize a twenty- 
four hours' ride for our members, say on the Bath Road ? 
Medals might be offered to all beating a certain distance ; 
say a bronze medal for 160 miles, silver for 200 miles, and 
gold medal for beating record, which is about 220, 1 believe. 
I think we should be surprised at the distance that would 
be covered. Why, sir, a wretched THING (capitals, please. 
Printer) that has almost the same relation to a bicycle that 
a costermonger's donkey has to a race-horse — a "Facile '* — 
does somewhere about 200 miles in the twenty-four hours. 
What ought H. R. Reynolds to do ? to say nothing of our 
President, Douglas Smith, and others whose name is legion. 
On Easter Monday one of our members rode 147 miles in 
sixteen hours. I hope that this letter may at least result 
in eliciting an expression of opinion from our long-distance 
members.— I 'am, sir, yours truly, Roabstkb. 









Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



55 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — I desire to bring before the notice of your readers 
a proposal of a very revolutionary nature, but one which it 
is my sincere conviction would be for the Club's good, to 
wit, the dismemberment of the West District. I do not of 
course remember the reasons which led to the formation of 
it, and I am in the unfortunate position of Little Bo Peep" 
in that I don't know where to find them," but I do know 
that, as far back as my perusal of the Gazette goes, there 
haa been in the West, and perhaps still more in the South- 
West District, a constant and painful ^training to keep up 
appearances, and generally to keep things going. Before 
passing to probable results of a change, let me say what I 
should like to see done. Let the four Districts follow the 
example of the other great powers, and go in for a partition 
of Poland on a small scale by taking the Great Western 
Railway from Paddington as a division, and giving all the 
country north of it to the N.W., and south to the S.W., 
and let the rest of the line (to the east) be that which at 
present divides the N.W. and W. I cannot help thinking 
that many advantages of some such scheme will immediately 
present themselves to your readers ; the following are only 
a few : — 

1. Symmetry. Can anyone say why London should be 
divided north and south, as it is, through Charing Cross, 
and two Districts be made of the one side, and of the other 
three? 

2. Attendance at Meets. I believe that the chief 
reason why men in the W. and S. W. do not turn up is that 
they are never sure of meeting a respectable muster, and 
when they submit to the restraint and other disadvantages 
of Club runs as opposed to unorganised riding, they like to 
be rewarded by meeting a large number of friends, and by 
having a sort of social gathering. 

3. Racing. The membership of the W.D. would be 
divided about equally ; but of the racing members, while 
those such as Buckley and Jephson who belong to the West 
in virtue of residence at Oxford would go to the N.W., the 
majority would help to create and maintain a racing team 
in the S. W., which (barring Griffith, who, I understand, has 
permanently retired) is almost destitute of path ridera 

4. Accessibility of the present W.D. from both sides. 
The Thames forms for the eastern half of the Club a 
natural and practically impassable dividing line, but on the 
other side of the " line drawn north and south of Charing 
Cross" this is not so, for not only does the river meander 
in a way that quite unfits it to perform such an important 
duty, but it is bridged at every few miles, and either side 
is equally accessible to the average member of the W.D. 

I want to know what is the raison d'etre of my District ? 
Does it exist simply on account of the difficulty of esta- 
blishing a satisfactory boundary line between its neighbours, 
because, if so, I claim that the G.W.R. is ready to supply 
a long-felt want, or is there some other reason which I have 



entirely failed to grasp? Finally let me say that I am 
sure it is owing to no want of energy on the part of its 
officers past or present that this undoubted stagnation 
exists, but that it appears to me to be due to the inherent 
wrongness of our territorial arrangements, which the 
establishment of a scientific frontier would go far to 
rectify.— I am, sir, yours faithfully, J. S. Whattok. 
April 5th, 1883. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Rule 40 enacts that no member represent the Clnb at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

April 14. — Surrey B.C. at Surbiton. 

21. — Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
28.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
28. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 
May 12.— Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 

14. — Scottish Games and Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2.— Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9.— C.TJ.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 

13. — O.TJ.BLC. V. L.B.a at Crystal Palace. 
16. — London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
23.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 

30. — Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birmingham. 
30. — A. A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
30. — Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Ptuace. 
July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 

7. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
7. — B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle 

Championships at Birmingham. 
7. — ^Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
7. — Belgrave B.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

14. — B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 

Palace. 

25.— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
Sept. 16. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval, 



HALLIFORD. 
I hope the N.E. will remember its traditions and turn up 
in force tit Halliford. It might be nearly a long enough 
run even for our Skirmishers. 

Thbo. Godlbe, District Captain. 



Goog[( 



Digitized by 



56 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZFTTE. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristoile and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine cMteth off his qnlllB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioacorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Brownb. 

The Chancellor of the Exchequer seeks the advice of 
Mr. Punch as to his budget proposals. 

a ofE, (producing MS.). "Well, sir, I thought bicycles 
and tricycles 

Mr, Punch. "Won't do. They are a bother to the 
horses of the rich, but give a deal of pleasure to the small 
City clerk and the artisan. Leave them alone." — Punch. 
• « • ♦ « • 

I wonder whether the two individuals th^ N.E. saw on 
Golding's Hill last Saturday were " small City clerks," or 
" artisans." Their elegance of language was only equalled 
by their reckless way of dismounting. 

The North East kept up its reputation as the Official 
District by riding with three former Captains of the Club 
in the front rank of the Meet. How is that for majestic 
grandeur? And there was an ex-Secretary behind as a 
reserve. 

««•««• 

If the Epping police had not been very forbearing, the 
Epping magistrates would have to deal with three former 
members of the B.U. Executive on a charge of furious 
riding. " It was all the D.C.'s fault, please, sir." 

The treaty between the N.E. District Captain and Editor 
has broken down, owing to treachery on the part of one of 
the contracting parties. The Editor won't let me say which. 
*••««• 

I hope members are keeping Saturday, the 21st, clear for 
the Halliford General Meet. The weather has been so bad 
at the last two Meets at Halliford that we may expect good 
luck this time, and — a strict secret — Halliford is a capital 
place to stay the night, and have a long row on the^ 

on " one day next week." , * ' ' '^^ 

*♦♦♦♦* 

Honours are pouring on L.B.C. men. C. R. Hutchings, 

our well-known ex-Secretary, has been, after a severe 

contest, elected one of the Bournemouth Improvement 

Commissioners. We trust hifi abilities will not overlook 

the interest of bicyclists and tricyclists in the state of 

the roads. 

Innocence. — Well-known racing member to road rider, 
whom he had been taking along the Ongar road at about 
seventeen miles an hour : — " What sort of pace do they 
go at, at the Club Meets ? . Do they go much faster 
than this? 

At the North West Meet on Saturday, a 60 and a 58-inch 
went straight for one another; the shock can only be 
compared to the Charge of the Heavy Brigade. 



I hear, also, that the North East had a close shave of 
being annihilated at Buckhurst Hill, when two carts swept 
down within about three inches of their line. 

As over a dozen old medallists will probably start on 
Whit Monday, it is as well to undeceive our uninitiated 
members who seem to think that the tenth medallist will 
be about the twentieth at the finish. An extended know- 
ledge of the old medallist dispels the illusion. He generally 
rides hard till he finds his chance for the enamelled hopeless ; 
whereupon he retires into the first respectable inn he sees, 
orders a big dinner, disposes of it at his ease, and rides 
slowly in when everyone else has left the winning post. 
*••«•• 

I was always a favourite with the cook, and consequently 
I generally find my bicycle what she calls " tidied," and the 
lamp trimmed ready for the Saturday Kun. The other day 
the worthy old soul got rather mixed with her bottles, and 
replenished the lamp with furniture polish instead of the 
usual sperm. I will draw a veil over the darkness of the 

night, the spluttering lamp, and the pardonable expletives. 

• ft « • • • 

I hear Livingstone of the N.E. has had a very nasty 
accident with his double tri., and I am sure the Club will be 
anxious to hear how he is getting on. 

• ••••• 

The tricycling Sub-Committee has met at last, and will 
report to next Committee, so we may hope to hear of the 
Special General Meeting before long. 

• «•«•« 

Some members of the Committee had a benefit on Monday, 
as a series of Sub-Committees followed the General Com- 
mittee, and one member asserts that after four hours of it 
he went home and dreamt committee all night long. 

• ««*•« 

Those who oppose smoking at Committee meetings say 
the above inordinz^te elongation of Committee meetings is 
the direct result of the new rule that smoking is to be 
permissible. Porcupine. 

If the member go whom the sovereign was entrusted at 
Ripley would kindly give the same to the West D.C., he 
would oblige 0. G» M. Leeds. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
53-in. " Rudge," ball bearings to front and back wheels 
and pedals. Rucker's bent handles. Price £lO. F. J., 
37, Downs Road, Clapton. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C./' and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They muat be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate iosertion la desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dabliivo & SoK, at the Minerra Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Eastcheap, London, E.C.— April 12, 1883. 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. ?•] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserred] 



April 19, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



General Meets 

The General Meet 

The Road Trial 

Saturday Runs 

Club Meets 



FAOl 

67 
.. 68 
.. 68 
.. 68 
.. 60 



PAOB 

Bicycling in Switzerland 

Correspondence ^2 

Quills „ W 

Racing Fixtures 

Exchange List 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for ''Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 

GENERAL MEETS. 
"Yes, General Meets are all very well," says Slinker, 
''but I don't see the fun of toiling over miles of rough 
roads to meet a lot of fellows whom you don't know, and 
who don't care a pin whether you speak to them or not. 
Let me have my quiet trundle by myself, or with the par- 
ticular friend who thinks with me, and does care for my 
company." Slinker is not bad at choosing a pair of kid 
gloves, or in grumbling over spilt milk, but give him some- 
thing to do for his Chib and he hides his light under a 
bushel, professing much but doing little. Now just com- 
pare him with Slasher, who is not less zealous of the Club's 
good name than he is of his own : he confesses there may 
be some inconveniences in attending the General Meets^ 
but he soon shows how he enjoys doing his part: he is 
liked by all who know him ; he pleases himself in trying to 
please others ; while we have men like him in the Club 
there need be no fear of any permanent falling off in Club- 
love. Fortunately Slinker has not many disciples, for he is 
slowly but surely losing his influence, and laziness— as it 
alwajrs must in the end — is giving way before healthy work : 
members are beginning to realise forcibly the fact that in a 
large Club like ours, scattered all over London and its sur- 
roundings, it is wise to take advantage of every opportunity 
that presents for strengthening the vitality of the Club by 
bringing all our men together in friendly intercounie ; and is it 
not difficult to conceive how this end can be accomplished 



in a more natural or more agreeable manner than by the 
skilful organisation of a few General Meets during the riding 
season? 

So far our remarks have applied to the duty of the thing 
and the " opposite side," but now we may as well inform 
our doubting members that there is a deal of pleasure, 
actual pleasure, to be got out of a General Meet. It is 
always, to say the least, a jolly gathering, where we are 
sure to meet some of our friends from other Districts ; 
ceremony need not be and is not studiously observed, for 
membership must always be held to be a free pass to 
mutual recognition, so that acquaintances can and ought to 
be made amongst members previously unknown to each 
other,— and if acquaintances, why not friends ? Who knows 
but that the seeds of many a staunch friendship may be sown 
at our General Meets, as they certainly have been already in 
many instances at our ordinary runs ? Then we earnestly hope 
that those members who have not hitherto attended them will 
really make up their minds to try for themselves,— that they 
will come determined to please and be pleased,— and they will 
at least have the satisfaction of knowing they have done what 
they could to support the Club, not in a trifling but in an 
important matter, for does not the Club's growth, its very 
existence,;depend upon the efforts of its individual members? 

This is no pathetic appeal, as our friend Slinker would 
very likely call it : it is only a plain statement of what we 
believe to be the simple facts, and we have no doubt what- 
ever that those men who come to Halliford next Saturday, 
animated with the feelings we have endeavoured to portray, 
will return home well pleased. 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



THE GENERAL MEET. 
The final arrangements for the General Meet at Halliford 
on April 21st are as follows : — 

The N.K will leave Lea Bridge Road at 3.0 sharp 
(there will be no Meet at Syborn's Corner). They will 
proceed to "Jack Straw's/' where they should join the 
N.W., who meet at that point at 4.0. The two Districts 
proceed together to Kew Bridge. 

The W. meet at Kew Bridge at 5.0, and proceed with 
the N.E. aud N.W. to Halliford via Feltham. 

The S.W. meet at Kingston Station at 4.30 p.m. sharp, 
and proceed to Halliford. 

The S.E. (Bhickheath Division) meet at Lewisham Church 
at 3.15 sharp and join the Croydon Division, which leaves 
Central Croydon fetation at 4.0 sharp and proceeds direct 
to Halliford. 

No District is expected to wait more than ten minutes 
for another District. 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 



HALLIFORD. 
N.E. District. Some members will probably proceed 
direct via Tottenham, so the party at the Lea Bridge Road 
are encouraged to start. 

Thbo. Goplbe, District Captain. 



THE ROAD TRIAL. 
I shall be glad to receive the names of any gentlemen 
who will kindly volunteer to time the competitors on Whifc- 
Monday at any of the following stations, and to learn at 
which place they will undertake to be present. 

Devizes 21 miles from Bath. 

Hnngerford 44} II 11 II 

Beftding ... 69 h n n 

Maidenhead 83 II II II 

Slough 89i II * II II 

Alfred Herbert will probably be at Marlboro' Hill, and 
W. A. Smith at Newbury. 

As competitors have never yet been timed at Devizes, I 
should feel greatly indebted to any member whose energy 
will induce him to undertake this arduous task. 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 



BATH TRIAL. 

Members are reminded that entries for this event must 
be made in writing to the Secretary on or before Monday, 
30th April. E. S. Price, 

" Homelea," Greenhill, Hampatead. 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
A. C. Clements, Woodside, Linkfield Lodge, Redhill, 
Surrey. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
14th April. The account of this run may lack the 
accuracy of detail which sometimes is observable in N.E. 
reports, from the fact that unavoidable causes prevented 
the D.C. from attending at the Corner at the time appointed ; 
it is stated however that four members as usual left that 
spot, proceeded via Red Bridge to Ilford, and thence by 
the back lanes, which were more than awfully dusty to 
Upminster. They did not know where to wait for the S.E., 
so they didn't do it. It also appears that two or three 
other members arrived by divers other routes, two visitors 
being present on a double tri. One at least of the 
skirmishers came via Chelmsford, which they as a class 
believe to be on the road to any place on earth, and, later 
still, when the S.E. B.D., had joined the party at the 
" Bell," the Captain, kept in town by urgent occupation^ 
arrived just in time for tea, having come by the main road, 
which he said was execrable, though subsequent appearances 
were against him. The D.C. meanwhile did not leave 
Walthamstow before 6.0, and coming by Chigwell Row 
found it loose decidedly ; by 7.30, however, he had reached 
the haven of rest, and had time to make a substantial tea 
and perform divers duties of his office before the rest of the 
party would consent to start. Ultimately, eighteen in all, 
the party returned, taking to the main road, and finding it 
in really capital order for it The company separated at 
Ilford, and made their divers ways homeward. Present : 
besides the S.E. B.D., Arnott, Ashley Barrett, A. C. Forster, 
G. H. Gibbs, Kelsey, Lloyd, Long, Lyne, Stunt, Weeks, 
two visitors, (Letcliford and Whitford), and 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 

W. District. 

Saturday, 14tlL Though somewhat stormy looking, 
Leeds and Thorn were at the starting point in good time, 
showing by their personal appearance their desire to confute 
my last week's remarks anent their riding. Starting at 
4 o'clock, we proceeded by the lanes to Hanwell, thence to 
Greenford by a somewhat circuitous route, thus avoiding 
the main road. Up Greenford Hill we experienced the 
novel spectacle of being chased by a bridleless horse, which 
apparently enjoyed the unusual sensation of seeing three 
bicyclists flee before it at top speed, thus reversing the order 
of affairs. Following the Ruislip road for about a mile, we 
branched to the right for Northolt, in preference to 
continuing along the Ruislip road. The surface was, how- 
ever, very bad, the long period of dry weather having played 
havoc with the usually good surface of these lanes. We 
arrived at Eastcott first, (5.15), and took possession of the 
" Black Horse." A quarter of an hour later Dr. Langmore 
and Meyer hove in sight, the latter looking like some knight 
of the past ages who had descended from his pedestal at the 
British Museum, for he bestrode a velocipede which brought 
to the minds of all the oft-related tales of the primeval ages, 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



59 



so ancient was the implement (of torture ?) If anyone has 
a glass case for disposal, please apply without delay to the 
owner of above. A little later Williams and Nay lor arrived, 
thereby swelling the number to Seven, not so bad after so 
discouraging an account by J. S. Whatton. A very nice 
little tea was provided at the " Black Horse/' but owing to 
the ravenous state of the N, W. on the preceding Saturday, 
the landlord was compelled to abolish the proverbial Is. 
and charge Is. 3d., care will therefore be taken for the 
future not to follow the N.W. to any of their favoured 
resorts. An early start was effected, following the road to 
Euislip and thence to Ockenham, joining the main road 
between Hillingdon and Hayes, at which juncture we parted 
from Williams and Naylor who proceeded to West Drayton. 
Nothing occurred to mar the even tenor of our ways, 
excepting the roughness of the roads from Hillingdon to 
Slough and Ealing. Here I parted from the others after a 
very enjoyable afternoon, adding yet another success to the 
much despised West. Present: Dr. Langmore, Leeds, 
Meyer, Naylor, Thorn, Williams, and Pigott. 

I would ask particularly all members to make a point of 
being at Halliford next Saturday for the General Meet, and 
by so doing endeavour to prove that the W. District is 
capable of making as good a show as the other districts, 
notwithstanding the futile attempt being made to jdis- 
frauchise us. H. C. Pigott, District Captain. 

N.W. District. 
Although the run to Mill Hill was short, there were 
plenty of hills to make up for it. Four men started from 
** Jack Straw's Castle," and at Tally Ho I Corner four more 
joined, amongst whom we were glad to see R. Newman 
a<;ain. We kept along the north road as far as the foot of 
Barnet Hill, and then turned off past Bingham's to Bamet 
Gate. The long hill here was ridden by some, and then we 
turned down towards Highwood Hill, lliis was ridden by 
all at a rather fast pace, in fact rather too fast to be 
pleasant. At Mill Hill we were very well treated at the 
" Three Hammers," where Alison, Price, and Lown rejoined 
after a short excursion of their own. After tea we had 
some singing, and then started home, the run terminating 
at about 9.15 p.m. Distance, 18 miles. Present : Alison, 
Dalton, Jackson, Lown, R. Newman, Price, Tulloch, 
Williams, and one visitor. 

Palmeb Dalton, District Captain. 

S.W. District. 
Four members and a visitor met at Kingston Station for 
the run to Weybridge and Oatlands Park ; the route 
selected was over Kingston and Moulsey bridges, thence 
through West Moulsey and Walton to our first destination 
in Oatlands Park. As previously stated, our ride on 
Saturday was to include a visit to a very celebrated grotto, 
situate in Oatlands Park, and close to the Hotel of that 
name. The grotto at once strikes the visitor as a unique 



structure of its kind, and affords to the artist and geologist 
food for thought and careful study. The interior of this 
meandering and cavernous shell-house is most tastefully 
decorated in elaborate patterns, with countless varieties of 
white shells, combined with DeTonshire spars, and a more 
valuable combination termed Bed Serpentine. Star-fish and 
other representatives of the " finny tribe " are here most 
carefully imitated and executed upon the walls and ground 
of the caverns. As the general history of this extraordinary 
place was most ably described by'A. E. Buckler, after a dis- 
trict visit here last year, in the Gazette of the 17 th August 
(Vol. v., No. 24), I will therefore merely supplement his 
historical description by a few further details we collected 
on Saturday. The Duke of Newcastle was the original 
owner, and as the grotto is reputed to have cost £40,000 
it was a valuable property ; but tradition says that the 
noble proprietor, who was addicted to habits of gambling, 
had through a run of ill-fortune at cards (Nap. ?) to make 
over his interest to the Duke of York in discharge of debts 
thus incurred. History does not appear to relate whether 
or no the rendezvous of the noble gamblers" was within 
this enchanting fairy retreat. An ample bath (8 by 6 by 
5 feet deep) within the cavern was constructed during this 
second proprietorship for the exclusive use and pleasure of 
the Duchess of York, who seems to have spent much time 
here. The caverns were evidently intended as a place 
of cool retirement from the possible scorching suns of 
summer, and would consequently seem to be a more 
appropriate luxury for more southern and sultry climes. 
The light spars are arranged in drops from the top, and 
convey the idea of suspended icicles ; thus the notion is 
decidedly cool, in spite of the varying temperature of the 
caverns. These drops appear to be first formed into shape 
in wood and plaster, and the spars and shells afterwards 
stuck on. The visitor can at once readily realise the 
immense labour such an elaborate arrangement must have 
entailed, but. that three Italian workmen should have 
expended twenty years of their lives upon the task— as 
they are reported to have done — seems almost incredible. 
In the centre of the first and principal cavern is an uncom- 
fortable but stately chair of English oak, used by Charles II., 
and around this central object are grouped four wicker 
ones, containing elaborate silken cushions, upon which are 
worked various patterns of seaweed and shells by the 
Duchess of York herself. Graceful statues also adorn this 
chamber. The fireplace in one of the numerous recesses 
is also worked in shells, but seems an almost unnecessary 
adjunct to this luxurious edifice. Those of our members 
who have not yet visited, but who perhaps have frequently 
passed this curious place, I certainly recommend to call upon 
the next opportunity; it is a pleasing novelty that well 
repays the visitor. Our duty completed in this respect, 
we continued our run to the river side and emerged close 
to Shepperton Lock, where we found a very good inn and 



Digitized by 



60 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



ourselves quickly supplied with tea. Soon after the con- 
clusion of this satisfactory meal we were recognised by 
Maddoz of the Wanderers, who had seen us at the drama- 
tic show, and whom we were glad to learn had not only 
attended but positively enjoyed the performance. We were 
pleased to see H. H. Sherriff had so far recovered from his 
recent accident as to be able again to ride with us, and to 
hear from E. J. Sherriff that he had not given up all idea 
of riding again this year. At 8 p.m. we left Shepperton 
Lock for Kingston, and followed the loose and occasionally 
stony road through Weybridge, Walton, Apps Court, and 
Moulsey, reaching Kingston soon after 9 p.m. Distance from 
Kingston about 21 miles. Members present : A. £. Buckler, 
E. J. Sherriff, H. H. Sherriff, " Arry" Ryan, H. R. Best, 
visitor, and R. M. Obuogen, District Captain. 

The run next Saturday is to Halliford, and as this is a 
General Meet I hope as many members as possible will be 
at Kingston Station at 5.30 p.m. (sharp) to ride with the 
other Districts. 

S.E. DlSTBIOT. 

Saturday was to have been quite a gala day in the South- 
East, for the Captain had promised to join the run. The 
slight rain in the morning had laid the dust ; the sun peeped 
out just at the right moment ; the D.C. was mounted on a 
brand new machine — ^all in honour of the occasion ; but it 
was all to no purpose I The main body waited half an hour 
in Croydon for our noble chief, and it was not until after 
arriving at East Grinstead that we learnt the sad news by 
telegram that most important business prevented his being 
present. Considering that the Blackheath Division had gone 
over the water into Essex, and that this is one of our longest 
runs, the attendance was a good one. Rucker, Hindley, and 
Wyndham, came down from London ; The O'Reilly showed 
his usual energy by riding up from Brighton, and Morgan 
and F. L. Smith rode across from Sevenoaks. The racing 
element was well represented by Adam, Beck, Jephson, and 
Wyndham, and the goodly show round the tea table might 
compare favourably with the meets of former years. 

The party broke up gradually, some men leaving for 



home soon after tea, while others stayed later to assist in 
the musical line ; and it was somewhere about eleven when 
the last light disappeared over the Railway Bridge. Present : 
F. L. Adam, A. Barker, G. F. Beck, Alfred Herbert, 
E. H. Hindley, (N.W.) M. H. Jephson, H. G. Morgan, 
J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, A. L. Potter, The O'Reilly, 
M. D. Rucker, Jun., H. N.Sharp, F. B. Smith, S. E. Whealler, 
W. Wyndham, four visitors, viz: McCrae, Paull, A. Potter, 
and F. Williams, and R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

It is to be hoped that the South-East will show up 
creditably next Saturday for the general Meet at Halliford. 
We shall leave Central Croydon Station at 4 o'clock sharp, 
and in order to avoid Kingston macadam, take the road 
through Sutton to Ewell, where J. Kinder has promised to 
be at the '* Glyn Arms " at five o'clock, and pilot us over 
some excellent roads by way of Walton Bridge. 

Blackheath Division. 

April 14th. East Grinstead is considered too long a 
journey by some members of the Blackheath Division, and 
accordingly a meet with our N.E. neighbours at Upminster 
was arranged for their convenience. Four members and two 
visitors left the Heath, but one being unwell had to turn 
back at Woolwich. After crossing the river the remaining 
five proceeded by very loose lanes to Beacon Tree Heath, 
where the N.E. are usually met ; as however they did not 
come in ten minutes, the visitors tore themselves away from 
the sweet scents of that particularlv uncomfortable-looking 
locality and made for Upminster, where they arrived safely, 
excepting that one of the visitors, a Marlborough College boy 
on a 48in., was thrown in the well-known water jump near 
Romford. On meeting the home District the Blackheathens 
were much disappointed to find that their D.C. was absent, 
but before tea was finished they were gladdened by the 
unexpected arrival both of him and of the Captain himself. 
The latter did the visitors the honour of accompanying them 
back as far as the Albert Dock. Present : A. Day, F. 
Kinder, S. P. Smith, N. C. Willis, and two visitors. 

The Captain very much regrets he was unavoidably 
prevented from riding to East Grinstead on Saturday last 
to meet the S.K men there. He hopes they will forgive 
him for this time. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 


Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


April 21.— Halliford. General Meet. For times and places of itartiiig see page 6S. 


April 2S. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 3.30, 
and Sybom's Comer 
8.45, for Havbrino. 
("Orange Tree.") 


" Jack Straw's Cas- 
tle" 8.45, for Rick. 
ICANSWOBTH. Meet 
W. , 


Saveraake Cottage, 
Mill HiU Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

RlCKMANBWOBTH. 

C'Swan.") Meet 
N.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for YiBOUnA 
Watib. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Rivxbhbad. 


4.16, Old Lewisham 
Church, for RiYEB- 

HBAD. 


■A 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
and Sybom's Comer 
3.45, for HoDDis- 
DON. (<«01d Salis- 
bury Anns.") 


"Jack Straw's Cas- 
tie" 8.45 and TaUy- 
ho! 4.80, for GOL- 

TStEt HiATH. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mm Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Thamzs Duton. 
("Swan.") Meet 
S.W. and S.E. 


Kingston Station, 
4.80, for Thaios 
DiTToK. MeetS.E. 
and W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Thames Diiton. 
Meet W. and S.W. 


8.45, Old Lewisham 
Church, for Thames 
DiTTON. Meet W. 
and S.W. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE' CLUB GAZETTE. 



61 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(OONTIHUn) VBOM PAOK 51.) 





§ 13.— Xa*^ ofZug, 


Distance. 


MUes. 






XiQoeme. 


7 ... 


Boot. 


10 ... 


Rothkreuz. 


18i ... 


Cham. 


17 ... 


Zug. 


18i ... 


Oberwyl. 


23 ... 


WalchwyL 


26i ... 


Arth (or Art). 


811 ... 


Tells Capelle. 


82} ... 


Ktisanacht. 


41 ... 


Lucerne. 



(Variations in height unimportant.) 
You leave Lucerne by the Zurich roa4, which turns up 
by the Lucerner-hof. There is no possibility of mistaking 
your route in this expedition, nor are there any hills re- 
quiring a dismount when it is taken in this direction. If 
the direction be reversed a short dismount may be found 
needful in the " Hohle Gasse," leading up to Tell's Cliapel. 
You cross the line at Rothkreuz. We came up at a 
moment when a train was engaged in shunting, and, 
strange to say, the barrier was not up. By means of some 
capital practice for a slow race we managed to retain our 
seats till we could just tail the last carriage as it eased up, 
and we promptly crossed behind it before the engine driver 
had time to reverse. " Oh ! those English ! " I heard the 
station-master exclaim, far too much amazed at the apparent 
temerity of our proceeding to venture on any oflBcial 
remonstrance. Cham is the great centre of the Anglo- 
Swiss condensed milk business, and we noticed all the way 
along the road the milk tins which are set down and taken 
up by the company's carts on the roadside at points nearest 
the farms. Perhaps it is principally owing to this constant 
traffic that the bit of road between Kothkreuz and Cham is 
invariably out of condition. It is just one of those occa- 
sional bits which are needful to help one to appreciate how 
good the Swiss roads as a rule are. We met two of the 
company's carts full of etnpty tins coming along. The 
driver of the hindmost cart had affably condescended to 
leave his own team and occupy a seat on the box of the 
first cart for society's sake. Swiss horses seem to go crazy 
whenever they are left alone, and the consequence was that 
although the first team took to us quietly enough, the 
hindmost, directly we got up, bolted clean up into the cart 
in front of them, and a general scatteration of milk cans 
ensued. That driver will smoke his pipe in vigilant soli- 
tude for the future. The church at Cham is worthy of in- 
spection. Zug is a charming little town (paving, walk), and 
you will get an excellent lunch at moderate charges at the 
"Falcon," just at the corner of the open square in the 
centre of the town. The handsome new Government 
building close to the lake is worth a visit, if only for the 
sake of the view of the water from its windows. Up to 



this point the road (for a Swiss road) may not have been 
found particularly interesting, but for the next 13 or 14 
miles as it skirts the lake it is most enchanting. The water 
of the lake is very transparent, far more so than that of 
Lucerne, and the banks, though not so steep and imposing, 
are exquisitely beautiful. In Arth you must bo prepared 
for a perfect army of dogs. You will also come upon a bit 
of cobble paving, but it is too short to necessitate a dis- 
mount : the bend in the street prevents your seeing how 
short it is. You must be prepared for some stiff bits of 
work three miles beyond Arth, especially a hill leading up to 
and beyond a level railway crossing ; but there is no need 
to dismount, unless it be for stones. If you have a taste for 
inferior works of art in honour of that rather mythical 
personage William Tell, you will halt at the chapel which 
is on your right afl you come up a bit of hiU. The steep 
shady hill leading down from it called the Hohle Gasse,' 
or Hollow Lane," will remind you of Devonshire after a 
mild fashion. It is not a thing to strike the EngUsh eye as 
specially remarkable, but it is exceedingly unlike a bit of 
Continental roadway, and this is probably the secret of its 
reputation. When riding up it in the reverse direction one 
day we met the matrons and maids of the village coming 
down in procession from the chapel chanting an ''Ave" 
and telling their beads. Our appearance had much the 
same effect on them as the intrusion of a dog, a bird, or 
even a butterfly in church has on an English congregation, 
namely, that everyone seemed to regard it as a welcome 
and legitimate excuse for a relaxation of devotional tension, 
and a diversion of the current of mental energies into more 
secular and possibly more i^iviting channels. 

§ 14. — Northern side qf the MigL 



Height. 
1426 
1425 
1855 
1725 
1850 
1480 
1510 
1690 
1425 



Distance. 
HUes. 



81 

i4r 

16! 

17i 

18i 

21i 

23^ 

27 



Lucerne. 

Kussnacht. 

Arth. 

Goldau. 

Top of HiU. 

Lowerz. 

Seewen. 

Schwyz. 

Brunnen. 



This excursion may be abridged by taking the boat to 
Elissnacht, as wbU as back from Brunnen, or on the other 
hand, it may be lengthened by returning to Lucerne by 
any section or sections of the Lake Round, already described 
in § 12. To Arth the road is the same as § 13 reversed. 
In Arth you turn to the right ; the paving is very slight ; 
no occasion to dismount. A mile or so beyond, road forks : 
take the right. From here to Goldau, and beyond it, there 
is a considerable amount of climbing to be done, but all 
rideable if the surface is in good condition, and if you are 
not going to make too long a day of it. The road traverses 
the scene of the great landslip at the beginning of this 
century, and few sights are more calculated to impress one 
with the prodigious character of the forces of nature. You 
will still see the scar, as it were, of the slip high up on the 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Bossberg on your left, and the wilderness of boulders 
through which you keep mounting on the Rigi, or right 
side of the valley, was forced up hill all this distance. 
Some of the hills down to Lowerz are steep and tortuous, 
but do not last long : they would probably have to be 
walked the reverse way. The little islands on the lake of 
Lowerz are very charming, but the colour of the water is 
more peculiar than beautiful. In Seewen bear to your left 
and cross the line; you will mount slowly up into the 
Schlag Strasse, a fine road leading from Schwyz to Sattel : 
turning into it to your right you reach Schwyz in about 
\\ miles. In Schwyz you had better dismount before 
turning the corner at the churcli, as the pavement, though 
fairly good, becomes steeper. Across the open square on 
your right, facing the church, is the " Rossli " (" Cheval ") 
where two of us had soup, omelette, and a bottle of Asti 
Spumante for the moderate charge of 4f. 70c. The road 
leading straight down at the side of the inn is the road you 
will take to Bruunen. You should go and see the church 
whilst they are getting your lunch ready. ITie road to 
Brunneii is nearly all down hill. Just before we neared 
the village of Ibach, as we were coming down a good pace, 
we saw about 150 yards in front of us a regular whirlwind. 
Dust, leaves, and sticks were suddenly caught up, and after 
eddying round and round at a terrific rate were swept up 
en mam into the sky, where they as suddenly disappeared. 
By the time we came up (after slackening a bit) everything 
was perfectly still, but some 40 yards of roadway were left 
as smooth and bare as a sheet of glass — not a particle of 
detachable matter in any shape or form was visible. I 
wonder what would have happened to us had we been just 
a quarter of a minute earlier : perhaps I might have been 
enabled to treat your readers with a section on the condition 
and gradients of the roads in the moon. 

Geraed F. Cobb. 

August, 1882. 

{To be cantimied.) 

Be WEST DISTRICT. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sm, — I have the greatest possible respect for Mr. Wliatton, 
but as a member of the West District I feel bound to object 
most strongly to his scheme for cutting us up ; and I will 
deal seriatim with regard to the advantages which he 
claims for his proposal — 

1. Symmetry. I think Mr. Whatton has overlooked the 
important fact, that of the 128 members living north of the 
Thames, 91 are placed on the west side of the line drawn 
through Charing Cross, so that the existence of two Districts 
on one side, and only one on the other, is by no means an 
inexplicable point. 

2. Attendance at Meets. Sir, — I venture to state that, 
under whatever rule the country composing the W. and 



S.W. Districts may be, the river will always prove a rival 
to the road. 

3. Racing. The line proposed by Mr. Whatton would, 
as far as I can judge by looking at the map, and from ' 
personal experience as to the dwelling places of members, 
give nearly all the 39 members of the West District to the 
S.W. ; thus, with the exception of any men at Oxford who 
chanced to belong to the Club, the N.W. would not be 
much better off than it is at present. 

4. Accessibility of the present W. District from both 
sides. I was not hitherto aware that the meandering course 
of a river unfitted it for performing the office of a boundary, 
nor did I know that the divisions between the Districts 
ought to be impassable. But, perhaps, such ambitious 
designs may have been put into the heads of the surround- 
ing Districts, that in order to keep our freedom it may be 
necessary for us to destroy the bridges over the Thames 
and dig a canal up the Edgware Road. 

With regard to the raison d'etre of our District, I take 
it to be that as a certain number of our members live more 
in the heart of London, and are consequently somewhat 
differently placed with regard to meets from members of 
other Districts, it is more convenient that they should form a 
District by tliemselves, than be amalgamated with members 
living ip the suburbs. 

In conclusion, let me protest most strongly against the 
extinction of the W. District as being a step utterly un- 
called for, and, moreover, one which in all probability would 
be most objectionable to the majority of the members 
concerned. We all know Mr. Whatton to be a most en- 
thusiastic bicyclist, and one who has the welfare of the 
Club most thoroughly at heart, but, bearing in mind a 
previous correspondence on this subject, I think he has 
allowed himself to be somewhat biassed by the numerous 
tram-lines between his own house and Savernake Cottage. 
—•Yours truly, Disteictus. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — As one of those who fought and bled in the revo- 
lution of 1876, the outcome of which was the birth of the 
Western District, I have taken upon myself to reply to 
Mr. Whatton 8 proposal, and to point out to him the 
raison d'etre of that District, which is briefly this : The 
Club was formerly divided into four divisions — N.W., N.E., 
S.W., S.E., and the rendezvous for the Club meets of the 
respective districts were, N. W., Jack Straw's Castle, Hamp- 
stead, N.E., top of Lea Bridge Road, S.W., Kew Bridge 
and Kingston Market Place (alternately), and S.E., Croydon. 
It was found that the great majority of the N.W. members 
resided in the neighbourhood of Hampstead and Maida 
Vale, and the greater portion of the S.W. members lived 
at or near Surbiton or Richmond. A very considerable 
minority of these two districts, however, resided at Kensing- 
ton, Chiswick, Willesden, and Acton, and to attend the 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



63 



meets of their respective districts, these memhers, most of 
whom were employed in the City (and could not leave their 
business before two p.m. at earliest), had to get home, 
change their clothes, and ride, in the case of the N.W. dis- 
trict, distances varying firom six to eight miles, and in that 
of the S. W. from four to ten miles, to join their respective 
Glab meets, and this was found to be impracticable, both on 
account of the distances to be ridden and the bad roads 
over which they had to travel, and so the Western District 
was formed to meet this difficulty. The same arguments 
hold good now ; the distances are the same, and the roads 
(as old riders too well know) are worse, and a ride from 
Kensington or even Acton to Kingston is sufficient to arouse 
the wrath of even so amiable and even-tempered a man as 
the writer of this article. What with greasy macadam 
from the watering — No — Hydrostatic machine, bad surfaces, 
and tram-cars, not to speak of that exquisite specimen of 
local road mending, which forms the connecting link between 
Petersham and Ham Common, the surface of which reflects 
such credit on the Kichmond road surveyor, that eight miles 
has few attractions. Now as regards attendances ; this 
year, up to the present, the average is about eight per meet, 
out of a total of thirty-five members, which is satisfactory, 
and it must be remembered that we have fewer members in 
this district than any other, save the S.W., in addition to 
which fifteen of our number never now by any chance 
attend Club runs, either having given up riding or because 
they race regularly. Surely,.therefore, an average of eight 
out of a possible twenty is very good, and I will ask the 
question : Does the pleasure of a Club run consist in along 
string of riders, the last half of whom are smothered in the 
dust which the wheels of the first raise, or in a more com- 
pact little body, all of whom are personally acquainted ? 
The best plan, when practicable, is to meet some other dis- 
trict at tea, and this will be carried out as much as possible 
during this season. 

Again, we have just elected a new District Captain, who 
is also new to the Club, and who has to win his spurs. Is 
it too much to ask all members of the district (not excepting 
even the district visitor), to rally round their newly elected 
chief, and, by their regular attendance at their weekly runs, 
place the little Western District in as high a position among 
the attendance averages at the end of the season, as it has 
held, and does hold still, in the list of prize winners. — 
Yours truly, W. A, Smith. 



THE RACE MEETING. 
To the Editor of the London Bicyck Club Gazette. 
Sui, — Allow me to express my regret that the Race 
Committee have so far departed from the traditions of the 
Club as to shorten the distance of our Open Handicap to 
one mile. 

The only advantage of this change is the largely increased 
number of entries which is probable. 



Against this is to be set the disadvantages of a lengthier 
programme, and of the introduction on our course of an 
inferior class of riders. The tendency of all clubs lately 
has been to shorten their handicap distances, with the 
result of bringing out a class of racing men who can do 
nothing but spurt, and doing nothing to encourage staying 
power except among such men as can fairly enter into 
scratch races. Our Club has been the conspicuous ex- 
ception ; we have cared more for the improvement of 
racing than for the benefit to our balance sheet of large 
entries ; and we have steadily adhered to the rule of giving 
a handicap of a distance ranging from five to two miles. 
The best men of the year have entered for our handicaps ; 
the men who have not entered and who will now enter are 
the inferior men who can only travel a short distance with 
a long start. 

In the interests of sport and of the reputation of the 
Club I protest against a change conceived solely in the 
interests of the balance sheet of the Race Meeting. — I am, 
sir, yours truly, T. E. S. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 

Sib, — I oppose " Roadster's " proposed twenty-four hours 
ride for reasons given below : 

Firstly. Our Committee have quite enough work to do 
with their ordinary duties, without any additions. 

Secondly. Our finances are not in so flourishing a con- 
dition that we can afford to waste our money on a competi- 
tion that would not do the Club or its members any good. 

Thirdly. Much as I believe in our esprit de corps, I 
doubt if we should find enough members willing to sit 
up all night taking the 4imes at different parts of the 
Bath road. 

Fourthly. If it were taken up and carried out, what 
good would it do to bicycling as a sport ? Everyone knows 
a bicycle is far superior to a " Facile." 

Fifthly. It might do a great deal of harm to some of 
our young members, who would, no doubt, overtax their 
strength in so long a competition. — Yours truly. 

Ex Member of Committee and Medallist. 



STABLING ACCOMODATION FOR WEST DISTRICT 
MEETS. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
Sir, — For the benefit of those members who wish to 
avoid the five miles of bad macadam roads and tramlines, 
I propose to procure the use of a stable, or suitable room, 
wherein machines can be locked up in safety, at some point 
near to a main-line railway station. Also to obtain one or 
more lockers for the use of members to keep a change of 
clothes, etc., in. 

I propose Ealing as the most suitable locality, and con- 
venient as regaras railway accomodation. Will all who 
care to subscribe kindly communicate with mtf, and I shall 
also be very pleased to receive any ideas relative to the 
successful carrying out of the matter. — Yours faithfully, 
H. C. Pigott, District Captain. 



Digitized by 



64 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



QUILLS. 

Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine easteth off his qnUls 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioeoorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowns. 

Several of our racing men are to be seen almost every 
evening at the Crystal Palace. H. R. Reynolds, F. L. Adam, 
D. R. Smith, C. A. Brown, Buckley, Jephson and Beck have 
all been doing steady work. I hear that W. E. Adam will 
begin practice next week. 

We are within measurable distance of the Annual Race 
Meeting. The first entry was received on the 11th instant, 
Mr. G. D. Vesey having put down his name for both the 

open events. 

• «••«• 

I am half afraid of the penalties of high treason,pr8emunire, 
breach of privilege, or some other awful offence the Editor 
ought to know all about, [be doesn't. — Ed.] ; but still I must 
so far divulge the secrets of the last Committee Meeting, as 
to say, that Solomon in all his glory, enthroned on ivory and 
scarlet, is nothing to the Captain in the chair at Committee 
under the new arrangements. 

«•*«•« 

The printer's devil irreverently suggests that Solomon's 
throne was surrounded by " apes and peacocks." " I can't 
think where he picks up these low jokes," as Terry sajrs in 
Blue Beard. 

I hope we shall have a largd muster at Halliford on 
Saturday. Perhaps some kind friend will telegraph any 
Crystal Palace victories of our racing men to enliven the 
Club tea. 

• « • « « • 

Bath Monday is drawing near. I hear a N.W. member 
has been training for the great event by dragging his garden 
roller about at full speed. The District Captain should 
inquire into this. 

• • • « « • 

The beneficial effect of the Captain on the Romford road 
on Saturday was marvellous ; it was atrocious as he went 
out, and very good as the Di^strict returned. He is 
recommended as a specific. 

• «*••* 

On the 5th inst., at the Central Synagogue, Great Port- 
land Street, by the Rev. S. Lyons, Alfred Henry, eldest son 
of Richard L. Henry, Esq., of 32, Warwick Road, Maida 
Hill, to Jessie, youngest daughter of the late S. A. Kisch, Esq., 
Solicitor, of Wimpole Street, Cavendish Square. 

• ••*•• 

I hear that the N.E. will shortly repudiate the title of 
the " Little District." 

• • • • ' « • 

A HINT TO D.CS. 
If you want to increase the average of attendances, get 
members in your di^rict to take a turn round the grass plat 



on Saturday afternoons in the intervals of lawn tennis, and 

then chalk them d^wn as " riding somewhere in the district." 
« • 1 • • • • 

It is sad to relate that the Napoleonic features of the Ex 
D.C. were conspicuous in their absence from the S.E. tea- 
table on Saturday. Has he given up riding, or is he in 

hard training for the Bath Trial ? 

• ••••«. 

His friends will be glad to hear that Arthur Herbert is 

once more at home, and hopes to be able to attend the 

General Meet on Saturday. 

The N.W. D.C. was not much hurt on Saturday. He 
only received five cuts, two sprained wrists, ditto neck, 
shoulder, and elbow, thirteen bruises and scratches, and two 
lovely black eyes. 

There is an amusing notice at Mill Hill concerning a 
funeral fund with no entrance fee. One quite longs to reap 
advantage from it. It is rumoured that the D.C. is a 
member, and has been trying to take it out of the Company." 

POBCUPIBE. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Rnle 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission horn the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

April 21.— Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
28.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
28.— Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 
May 12.— Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 

14. — Scottish Games and Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26. — L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26. — West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2. — Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9 _C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
13.— O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16.— London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
For Sale. — o6-in. " Special Club," with ball bearings to 
both wheels and petals. Nickel plated all over. With all 
latest improvements. Cost £25. Has been ridden just 
over 100 miles. Price £15. H. G. Atkinson, Gunnersbury 
House Acton, W. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contribations must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C.,*' and mnst bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling Sl Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastoheap, London, E.C.— April 19, 1888. 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 8.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[An right! referred.] 



April 26, 1883. 



Fads of Former Yean 

Committee 

The Road Trial 

Amraal Race Meeting 

The Hallifoxd General Meet 
Club Meets 



CONTENTS 

PAOB 

65 



66 
66 
67 
67 



Bicycling In Switzerland . 

Corre^ndenoe 

All Round the Wheel ..... 

Quills _ 

Racing Fixtures 

Notices 



PAOS 

.. 69 
.. 70 
71 
.. 72 
.. 72 
.. 72 



NOTIOB, 

The latest hour for reception of oopy for ''Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on TuesdayB. 

FADS OP FORMER TEARS. 

In the days of long ago, before M.D.R's and Clytie bags 
were invented, every man had his fad for carrying luggage. 
A sleeve of an old mackintosh, sewn np at one end and 
then staffed like a sausage, was my favourite, but a friend, 
with whom I went a tour in the west, and who did not 
happen to have an old mackintosh, tried brown paper 
parcels, each article being done np separately and tied to 
the curly spring of his " Coventry." He said it would be 
80 handy. We got on all right for a while ; bnt when the 
parcels began to be shaken up a bit he was continually 
shedding them. After fl3ring a hill, H., who was riding 
behind, would frequently hail me to ride slowly while he 
went back to retrieve his night shirt, which had come 
adrift ; or the paper had chafed, and his tooth bruah was 
lying around in the road somewhere ; and I would have to 
wait on a gate, swearing softly to myself like an Indian 
gold mine shareholder. I remember I carried a pair of 
trousers rolled up in a bundle, and strapped on the bar in 
the front wheel of an Ariel ; being on one side of the bar 
it revolved in an eccentric orbit. It made the Cornish 
rustics sit up when they saw it coming down the road. 

Carrying a dog whip was a fad which prevailed for a 
short time. Its object was to chastise dogs, and more par- 
ticularly small boys, whose amusement in those days was 
to pursue the bicycle and catch hold of the backbone, in 
addition to cap throwing. On observing symptoms of 



aggressiveness in a small boy, the rider would dissemble, 
simulate unconsciousness, and lure the urchin on to his 
fate. Then the whip was produced rapidly and applied, 
the small boy straightening up immediately, applying his 
hand to the injured part, and gazing after the retreating 
cyclist with a general expression on his face denoting sur- 
prise and dissatisfaction. But it was a deadly fad, 
producing chaos ultimately in the rider, owing to the lash 
getting caught in the wheel. 

Another fad which prevailed in a portion of the N.W. 
District was the particular curl of the backbone of a 
machine. It was about the time when Keen and Timber- 
lake were supplanting the heavier makes. We would spend 
a considerable portion of our time in making diagrams 
embodying our respective views, and when a new machine 
came home, on Sunday afternoons a meeting would be 
held, and the machine placed against the wall and gazed at 
critically by the hour, as if we had been aesthetes gloating 
over a lily, with someone looking at us. The Hampstead 
division were not in this, as these Philistines all rode 
"Stassens," and were consequently not amenable to the 
refining influences of sweetness, culture, and light ; for the 
Stassenite at that time only required a dirty face, a clay 
pipe, and a man in front with a red flag to be a parish 
steam roller. 

I knew a man once who, although elderly and of full 
habit, possessed all the enthusiasm of youth and rode a 
bicycle. His only difiiculty was mounting. He had de- 
veloped a peculiar jerk in getting from the step to the 
saddle, which invariably landed him over the handles. If 



Digitized by VjlJIJ^lC 



66 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



it had only occurred occasionally he would not have minded 
it, because, being of a philosophical temperament, he would 
have welcomed it as a change ; but it happened almost 
every time. First the thing grew monotonous, and then 
it seriously annoyed him. So at last he sat down and had 
a pipe, and proceeded to think it over to see if he could 
not get ahead of it somewhere. He was not a mechanical 
man, but possessed great powers of observation, and had 
remarked that the donkey boys of Hampstead Heath, when 
wending their homeward way in the evening, did not sit in 
the centre of the donkey in the seat provided there for the 
public, but invariably sat as near the southern end of the 
animal as its construction would permit. He inferred that 
the boy took up this position so that, in case the intelligent 
quadruped should feel a yearning to kick after the manner 
of his kind, the additional weight on his hind wheel, as it 
were, would discourage him. Being a man of action he 
knocked the ashes out of his pipe and said to himself, I 
will arise and go to my plumber." So he arose and went 
to his plumber. I saw him a few days afterwards with his 
face lighted up with a smile of conscious pride, and 4lbs. of 
lead piping wound round the backbone under the step. He 
had found peace. W. R. Sbwell. 

COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 2drd 
inst., the following gentlemen were elected members of the 
Club :— 

Name and Address. Proposer. Beoonder. 

Edward Mayo Halliday, 17, Bel- 
mont Park, Lea, Kent S. P. Smith. D. B. Smith. 

Bichard Jas. Panll, 1, Moorland 

Road, Croydon Alfred Herbert B. G. Frands. 

Fredk. H. Wmiams, Park House, 
Wamngton, near Oarshalton ... A. L. Potter. J. F. Potter. 

It being pointed out that in the list of candidates pub- 
lished in the April number of the C. T. C. Gazette, the 
word "London" appeared after the name of Mr. Volck- 
man. The Hon. Sec. was directed to write Mr. Shipton 
asking him to what Club this referred, and pointing out 
that we were generally known by the term of the 
" London." 

It was proposed by T. E. Scrutton and seconded by 
R. Q. Francis " That the programme of the Race Committee 
be revised by substituting a two mile open handicap for a 
one mile open handicap," to which H. G. A. Brown, seconded 
by R. M. Gruggen, moved the following amendment: 
"That the recommendation of the Race Committee be 
followed." After considerable discussion it was put to the 
meeting, when the amendment was lost andT. E. Scrutton's 
motion carried. 

It was decided that the report of the Tricycle Sub-Com- 
mittee should stand over to next Committee meeting, and 
that a copy of the report should be sent round to each 
member of the Committee. 



THE ROAD TRIAL. 
To CoMPETiTOBS. They are reminded that entries for the 
above will be received by the Hon, Sec. on and up to 
Monday, April 30th, and not after that date. I shall be 
glad if they will inform him not later than Wednesday, 
May 9th, of the day on which they intend to reach Bath, 
in order that rooms may be secured at the "White Lion " 
as in former years. If possible a special van for bicycles 
shall be obtained in the afternoon train from Paddington 
to Bath on Sunday, 13th, and I hope to meet all the com- 
petitors at the " White Lion " on Sunday evening, to draw 
for places and to receive final instructions. I shall be 
happy to convey a moderate amount of luggage from Bath 
to the hotel selected for tea on Monday evening (" The 
Milford Arms," Hounslow). All luggage must be securely 
labelled at Bath. Members are reminded that a complete 
road-riding costume must be worn in the Trial, and the 
L.B.C. uniform is preferred by the Committee. Further, I 
would point out the undesirability of members inviting 
riders outside the Club to ride up from Bath in the Trial 
with the competitors. Such a plan seems to add to the 
danger of interference on the part of the authorities, and 
appears moreover to be unattended with any practical good. 
The programme for Whit Monday will be as follows :— 

5.80 a.m To oalL 

6.0 „ Breakfast 

7.0 , Leave Hotel 

7.80 „ Start by CleTeland Bridge. 

The finish will be at the ninth milestone from London, 
Hounslow. The course is as follows : — 



Bath to Devizes 


... 21 miles. 


Devizes to Beckhampton Ck>mer ... 


... 7 


Beckhampton Comer to Marlboro' 


... 6 „ 


Marlboro* to Hungerford 


104,, 


Hungerford to Newbury 


... 81 „ 


Newbnry to Reading 


... 16 


Beading to Maidenhead 


... 14 „ 


Maidenhead to Hounslow 


... 17 ,. 




lOOmUes. 



Care must be exercised at these four situations between 
Bath and Melksham : — 

A. — 2;^ miles from Bath the road forks. Take the left 
hand one (the right goes under a bridge). 

B. — 5 miles from Bath (in the village of Box) the road 
forks. Take the lefb hand one by the Bear Inn." 

G. — 8^ miles from Bath, at Gorsham, the road forks. 
Take the right hand one (the left goes to Chippenham). 

D.— 8f miles from Bath, at Corsham, keep straight on at 
cross roads (the right hand one goes to railway station), 
and 100 yards beyond the cross roads, on reaching some 
curious old almshouses, take the right hand road to Melk- 
sham (5 miles) ; the road straight on leads to Lacock. 

To Timers. I shall be glad to receive the names of 
any gentlemen who will volunteer to time the competitors 
on Whit-Monday at any of the following stations, and to 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



67 



learn at which place they will undertake to be present : — 
Devizes, Hungerford, Reading, Slough. (Alfred Herbert 
will be at Marlboro' Hill, W. A. Smith at Newbury, and 
A. Henry at Maidenhead.) Timers are requested to be at 
their stations, with any refreshments they may be good 
enough to provide, at least half an hour before the arrival 
of the first man. I would suggest that timers provide them- 
selves with flat glass bottles, each holding a pint of water, 
claret and water, or weak tea, equal in number to the com- 
petitors, and also with as many packets of beef or mutton 
sandwiches — without mustard or salt — wrapped in paper 
with no string outside. Attention to these details of com- 
missariat will, I feel sure, conduce more than anything to 
fast times and a possible cutting of the record, and I shall 
feel obliged if timers will inform me after the Trial of any 
expenses they may have incurred in carrying out these 
requests. They are also requested to forward to me 
through the post their records and remarks by five p.m. on 
Tuesday, May 15th. Ashley W. Baabett, Captain. 



ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
Our Annual fiace Meeting is to take place at the Crystal 
Palace on Saturday, 16th June, which is a half-crown day. 
Tickets will be obtainable from members of the Committee 
at the reduced price of Is. 6d. The railway companies 
make no reduction on half-crown days, so that anybody 
getting their tickets for the Palace for that Saturday 
through us will save a shilling on each ticket. Members 
are particularly requested to make this known to their 
friends as much as possible. It has not yet been decided 
whether tickets will be sent round with the Gazette as here- 
tofore, or whether ladies' tickets will be supplied free. 
Notice of this will be given later on. 

As will be seen from the report of the Committee, it has 
been decided to substitute a Two Miles Open Handicap for 
a One Mile. The events will therefore stand as follows : — 

One Mile Members' Handicap. 

Two Miles Open Handicap. 

Two Miles Members' Scratch for Ladies' Challenge. 

Five Miles Open Scratch. 

Ten Miles Members' District Challenge. 
Entrance fee for the first four events 2s. 6d. each. No 
entrance fee for District Challenge. Entry forms will be 
sent round to every member later on. E. S. Price. 

BLUE BOOK CORRECTIONS. 
W. E. Adam's address is Stapenhill, Crescent Wood 
Road, Sydenham Hill, and his district, together with that 
of F. L. Adam, should be S.E. M. H. Jephson's district 
should be W., and M. D. Rucker's N.E. 

BATH TRIAL. 
Entries for the above close on Monday, 30th instant 
None can be received after that date. E. S. Price. 
Homelea," Greenhill, Hampstead. 



THE ANNUAL RACE MEETING AT THE CRYSTAL 
PALACE ON SATURDAY, JUNE 16th. 

As the Committee intend to make the Race Meeting a 
success in every way, they tnist members will exert them- 
selves vigorously to sell tickets in every direction among 
their friends, remembering that for every ticket sold a 
small profit accrues to the Club. Even those who are not 
specially interested in bicytsling may bo glad to buy tickets 
when they learn that these can be obtained through our 
Hon. Sec. for Is. 6d. apiece upon what is ordinarily a half- 
crown day. 

By purchasing through this channel a gain of one shilling 
upon each ticket will be effected, and the ticket so obtained 
will admit to the Palace and grounds as well as to our 
Race Meeting. Subjoined is a comparative statement of 
expenses : — 



Ticket of Adminioii to 
Palace, Grounds, and our 
Race Meetinfc, if bought 
of the Hon. Sec 

Railway Fare, Ist Class 
Return from London to 
the Falace 

Profit 



9, d 



1 6 



4 6 



Ticket of Admission to 
Palace, Grounds, and to 
our Race Meeting, if 
bought at the Palace, 
Railway Stations, or of 
other Agents 

Railway Fare, Ist Class 
Return from London to 
the Palace 



2 6 

2 
4 6 



THE HALLIFORD GENERAL MEET, April 21st. 

The men rode to Halliford in three groups — ^firstly the 
S.W. men whose adventures are here related by their 
D.C.- 

8, W, District Captain's Bsport. 
Probably in consequence of a slight discrepancy having 
arisen with regard to the time for making a start from King- 
ston Station, and of the conflicting announcement in the 
last Gazette, the muster at the meeting place was any- 
thing but extensive. Coleman was the first to arrive, I and 
a visitor following shortly after. The precise moment for 
our start was set down for 4.30 p.m., and after allowing ten 
minutes grace, in which to vainly look for a further display 
of force, we three took to the wheels. The run to Halliford 
being so short and with ample time at our disposal, we had 
proposed to somewhat extend our run and to ride by Esher 
and Walton, but as this route would have brought us in 
close proximity to Sandown Park and the traffic to the race 
course there, we altered our plan, and avoided that form of 
dangerous excitement by again riding over Kingston and 
Monkey Bridges; thence by App's Court and Walton bridge 
to the scene of action as in the previous week. Our S. W. 
contingent came to Halliford singly and in twos at frequent 
intervals, soon after we had arrived there. First we were 
pleased to observe the Bros. Buckler, on a new Social " 
tricycle of great promise, which seemed to have been ridden 



Digitized by VjU^I^^IC 



68 LONDON BICYCLE 



with very litUe apparent effort, and looked extremely well ; 
next came E. J. Sherriff, this making his second appearance, 
and we hope by no means his last, this season ; and finally 
upon two wheels came Harry Ryan, who had mistaken our 
District notice, and organised a separate meet at Kingston 
at 5.30 p.m. Noel Whiting, a well-known member of the 
district, sailed up stream to Halliford, thus completing a 
very successful muster for the S. W. D. 

Then came the S.E. men, concerning whom the S.E. 
District Captain writes as below : — 

S.E. District Captain's Itepart. 

Saturday, 21st April, was a marked and agreeable con- 
trast to the day of the first Halliford run last year. Ten 
men left Central Croydon Station at 4.15, and this number 
was strengthened by Stephen Smith at Waddou, A. L. 
Potter at BeddingtOD, and H. N. Sharp at Sutton. Just 
before reaching Ewell we were overtaken by Jephson and 
the brothers Adam, and at the Glyn Arms " we found our 
guide, J. Kinder, and Smither waiting for us. Here the 
two Herberts turned back, as did Sharp shortly afterwards. 
The rest, with Kinder at their head and the wind well 
behind, plunged into the intricacies of cross-country lanea 
The experiment proved a good one. Once or twice we had 
to slow up for a loose treadle or a slipping saddle, or as 
occasionally on doubling a corner in our sinuous course we 
came upon a party of racing folk driving away from San- 
down Park ; while now and again we had fairly to lie over 
our handles in answer to a desperate spurt on the part of 
one of the ex-D.C s, who, freed from the trammels of office, 
romped along as gaily as schoolboys. Crossing the main 
road at Esher we cast a passing glance at the beauties of 
the Mole, and received a passing compliment on the part of 
a by-standing rustic, on whose admiring gase the South 
East array burst like glorious vision as we swept in fair 
order under the railway bridge at Walton. But unfor- 
tunately the station bell sounding at the moment seemed 
to bring to the leaders memories of the last lap. Away 
went the flyers, and away went the symmetry of the 
South East. In vain did the D.C. try to keep in hand his 
scattering forces, until, after a final scramble, they became 
united again at the Ship," Halliford. Here Wyndham 
was found waiting, as well as The O'Reilly, who had faced 
the north-easterly wind and ridden up from Brighton. The 
South WeA were before us, but it was nearly half an hour 
later when the three other districts came in sight, and the 
South East were at last gladdened with a sight of the 
Captain — ^all the more so from their having been obliged 
to forego that pleasure the previous Saturday. It was not 
long before all were seated at tea, after which, at about 
eight o'clock, under a fair moon, the South East set the 
example by starting homewards, and Croydon was reached 
by the main body about ten o'clock. 

Then came the N.E., N. W., and W. The former District 
jUiet the Hampstead men at the usual meeting place of the 



CLUB GAZETTK 



latter. The two Districts then rode to Kew, where they 
met the W., and then made for Halliford via the Bath road. 
Near Acton, W. A. Smith was seen on foot, and unable, 
much to his friends' regret, to join the run. 

N.W. District Captain's Report. 

Seven N.W. men left " Jack Straw's Castle," with the 
N.E. District, on Saturday at about 4.20 for Halliford, and 
two joined when we got there. We went via Piatt's Lane, 
Worm Lane, Willesden (where Alison had a slight fall), 
Acton, and Kew. We then joined the W. District 
Distance 42 miles. 

W. District Captain's Report. 

The first to arrive at the starting point was R Scott, 
followed soon afterwards by the D.C. As the clock struck 
five a hurge party arrived, consisting of Meyer, Naylor, 
two Hewitts, Rucker, and three or four N.E. men whose 
names I do not know. After waiting a quarter of an hour 
the N.W. and N.E. Districts arrived. Without further 
delay all remounted, and rode back again over Kew Bridge 
expecting to meet the Captain there ; but rumour had it 
that he had gone on, so that no dismount was called for. 
Proceeding gently through Brentford, I led the way to 
Isleworth and Twickenham, and on to Hampton. After 
Sunbury the water-splash emptied several saddles. A little 
further on the head of the Captain was espied, making for 
us along the Feltham road. 

The road through Brentford was bad, owing to the laying 
down of new drainage culverts. Good running through 
Isleworth to Twickenham, rough from Hampton to Sunbury, 
good on to Halliford. 

A very good tea rewarded the fifty-four men who sat 
down to it, and at eight p.m. the party broke up, most of 
the N.E. men riding home through the City. 

Present : 8. W.^V&m. Coleman, A. K and A. Buckler, 
Noel Whiting, E. J. SherrifiF, H. L. Ryan, H. R. Best 
(visitor), and R. M. Oruggen, District Captain. S.E. — 
F. L. Adam, W. K. Adam, A. Barker, H. G. A Brown, 
A. Day, Alf. Herbert, S. Herbert, J. Kinder, A. L. Potter, 
The O'Reilly, Schmettau, Sharp, Smither, S. P. Smith, 
S. E. Whealler, Willis, Wyndham, H. Young, two visitors, 
and R. G. Francis, District Captain. N.E. — Nevill, Kelsey, 
A. C. Foster, S. N. Stunt, E. D. Sewell, Ashley Barrett, 
A. Lloyd, M. Di Rucker, jun., and Theo. Godlee, District 
Captain. N. W. — ^Alison, Aiken, Hawley, Hindley, Jackson, 
Lown, Price, Tulloch, and Palmer Dalton, District Captain. 
IT.— C. Braby, two Hewitts, Leeds, Naylor, E. Scott, Meyer, 
F. M. Williams, 0. Thorn, Jephson, and H. C. Pigott, 
District Captain. 

Ashley W. Baebett, Captain. 

The South East may be fairly congratulated on their 
muster of twenty-one, but with fine weather we hope to do 
even better things next Saturday at Riverhead. The two 
Divisions will meet on Famborough Common at five o'clock. 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



69 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Bate. N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


^ I and Syborn*B Ooraer 
5i 8.45, for Havibivo. 
^ 1 ("Orange Tree.") 


tie" 8.45, for Rick. 
MAMSWOBXB. Meet 

w. 


Sayemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

RiCKMANSWOBTH. 

("Swan.") Meet 
N.W. 


JKJngBton station, 
4.15, for ViBonriA 
Waxbb. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

RlVSBHlAD. 


4.15, Old Lewiaham 
Churchi for RivzB- 

HSAD. 


Tliea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
1 and Sybom^s Comer 
tf < 8.46, for HoDDES- 
S 1 DON. (''Old Salis- 
1 bury Anna. ") 


"Jack Straw's Cas- 
tle*' 8.45 andTally. 
ho ! 4.80, for OoL- 
NiT Heath. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Thaxes Ditton. 
("Swan.") Meet 
S.W. and S.E. 


Kingston Station, 
4.80, for Thames 
Ditton. MeetS.£. 
and W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Thakbs Ditton. 
Meet W. and S.W. 


8.45, Old Lewisham 
Church, for Thames 
Ditton. Meet W. 
and S.W. 



May 12.^No Official Run. 



May 19.— DuNBZABLB. General Meet with the 0.T7.BIC. and C.IJ.Bi.O. 



Height 
Feet 
1425 
1500 
1710 
1890 
8300 
8820 



::: ::: 1^ 

21f 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(OONTINUBD FBOM PAGE 62.) 

§' Ib.—Engelberg. 

Distance 
MUei. 

::: 

... Wolfenschiessen. 
... Grafenort, 

26' Top of HilL 

27i Engelberg. 

In Stanz, instead of turning down to your left as in § 12, 
keep straight on ; payement good. There is no other road 
after this for you to confuse with your own, which goes 
straight up the valley of the Eugelberger Aa, crossing it 
about three miles further up, after which you have the 
stream on your right the whole way to Engelberg. On each 
of the two occasions on which I have made this expedition 
it has been my fate to encounter bad weather and very 
heavy roads. The road is narrow for a Swiss road, and 
unlike most Swiss roads is flanked with hedges, which pre- 
vent the breezes from sweeping it, so it does not dry up so 
quickly as most. I have not, however, found any occasion 
to dismount until the big hill was reached. This begins 
about three-quarters of a mile beyond Grafenort, which 
consists of a very large deserted-looking house and stables 
on the right hand side of the road, and a little chapel up 
the hill to the left of it. If the surface is good it is well to 
persevere up the first straight reach of the hill, as you will 
come to a bit of level round the comer at the top ; but 
after this you will have to walk for a little over an hour. 
The road zigzags up through a pine forest nearly all the 
way. This is a great advantage in fine weather, being 
beautifully cool and shady ; on the other hand, in un- 
settled weather it keeps the road in a greasy condition, 
which makes your brake slip and renders the descent 
additionally troublesome. Of course you will make notes 
of gradients and comers as you walk up, and if botanically 
inclined you will be delighted at the splendid masses of the 
Noli me tangere, or sensitive balsam. It is always desirable 
to have a pair of gloves with you on these long hills to pro- 



tect your hands from the horseflies when you are wheeling 
up. This Engelberg hill requires a very great amount of 
caution in riding down, for you will notice that its precipi- 
tous banks are shamefully unprotected, and a " shy " must 
not on any account be risked. Add to this that the thick 
woods not only keep the road damp and increase the chance 
of the machine slipping out of hand, but they also impede 
your prospect, so that you cannot alwajrs see what is coming 
up the road. On this account I should strongly urge a 
reference to your time-table, and a selection of time for the 
descent when the road will be clear. Very few carriage'B 
indeed frequent the road except as goingf to or coming from 
the Lucerne boats at Stanastad, so that it is easy for you to 
calculate the right time, and you will probably only meet a 
stray cart or two on the road. In ascending, I should not 
be in any hurry to mount ; yoii will come upon some cor- 
ners where you will think the hill is going to cease, but if 
you mount you will be disappointed. You must wait until 
you are well within the upland valley to which the hill leads, 
and can see a real bit of level before you. You can ride 
straight through the long straggling village up to the 
Benedictine Church and Monastery. Just before you come 
to this there is a sharp little pitch — ^gradient less than 1 in 
10, 1 should think, but surface excellent. It will amuse the 
natives to see you rash up this, but their amazement knows 
no bounds if they see you come down it again at snail's pace 
and almost stand still in the middle. There is a little hotel 
("Pension MuUer") close to the church at which you can 
lunch, or you can return to the hotel " Titlis," which you 
will have passed on your right, but do not order trout at 
the latter— they charged us at the rate of something like 
28 lOd a pound for them. As trout are plentiful in the 
stream close by they probably cost them 3d at the outside, 
cooking and sauce included. The " Sonuenberg," the 
largest and most frequented hotel, lies off the village on a 
hill to your left as you ride up the valley, and it is hardly 
worth your while diverging to that unless you are going to 
stay the night. The " Titlis " and " Spannort " are ascents 



Digitized by Vj^O^iC 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



requiring aze and boots ; but an excursion over the Joch 
Pass to the little mountain inn on the Engstlen Alp might 
be undertaken, and you could sleep there and return to the 
valley the next morning. The Joch Pass is 7200 feet high, 
nearly 4000 feet, therefore, above Engelberg ; from this 
there is a descent of about 1400 feet to the Engstlen Alp, 
which may be reached in about 4^ hours from Engelberg. 
Early in the season, that is about the end of June or 
beginning of July, it is worth while to take this walk for 
the sake of the wild flowers alone, which pass all conception 
in beauty or variety ; but then, as there will still be some 
snow to traverse, you ought to have boots. 

Those who like to attend a good musical service on 
Sunday I strongly recommend to do as I did two years ago, 
and ride up to Engelberg in the morning ; but an early 
start from Lucerne is required, as the service is at nine. 
There was a very fair orchestra, as well as a good organ 
well played, and some of the unaccompanied singing was 
excellent. Next after Dresden it was about the best 
service I have heard on the Continent, and quite surprising 
in a place so comparatively remote from the musical world 
as Engelberg. High Mass at Lucerne on the other hand 
should be carefully avoided. I went there this year in 
company with an Oxford musical friend (the new organist 
of Christchurch), and we were both agreed in our verdict 
that it was really a disgrace to the place. The Swiss are 
not at all an unmusical people. Nearly every village of any 
size has its Glee Club or Manner-chor, and there are con- 
stant competitions, the performances at which are as good as 
anything that is to be heard of the kind. There is, there- 
fore, plenty of material to provide a good service at Lucerne, 
if the necessary pains and trouble were taken about it. I 
would add another reason for visiting Engelberg church on 
a Sunday morning. The monks, to whom the whole valley 
from Stanz upwards belong, seem to have done their best 
to encourage the women to keep up the old fashions now so 
rapidly disappearing in other parts of Switzerland, and it is 
quite a sight to see one side of this large church filled by 
women in their extremely picturesque costumes bedizened 
with silver ornaments, often of the most exquisite workman- 
ship, and which have been handed down in the family from 
generation to generation, to the infinite credit of their 
present owners, who have been led to resist all the recent 
allurements of the collectors and " antiquity " shops. 

August, 1882. Gbraed F. Cobb, 

(To be continued.) 

EXCHANGE LIST 
Special 52-in. Humber, built to owner's specification for 
touring purposes, and of extra strength, as good as new, 
cost price £21 16s. Price with ball treadles £l5 ; or, with 
ordinary ditto £14. May be seen and tried by appointment 
any evening. W. A. Smith, Savernake Cottage, Mill Hill 
lload, Acton. 

54-in. "Royal Challenge," in good condition. Ball 
bearings to front wheel, cones to back. Price £5 10s. — 
E. D. Sewell, 3, Clifton Terrace, Upper Clapton. 



(iOtXZBpOXttttttt. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
WEST DISTRICT. 
Sib, — " Districtus " answers me seriatim, and with your 
permission so will I answer him. 

1. Symmetry. He sa3rs of 128 members north of the 
Thames there are 91 west of the dividing line. Hence 
three Districts in the west half of the Club. Quite so ; but 
similarly there are some 90 members south of the Thames, 
of whom 65 are in the east quarter, and this is considered 
no sufficient reason for creating an East District. It still 
appears, therefore, "inexplicable'' that there should be 
three Districts on the west of the line drawn north and 
south, and two only on the east. 

2. Attendance at Meets. " D. " says the river will 
always prove a rival to the road. No doubt it will ; but 
that is not a reason for making three instead of two 
Districts out of a diminished number of men, but rather 
the reverse. 

3. Racing. "D." sa3rs from personal experience that 
nearly all the W. woidd go to the S.W. I say from a 
study of the Blue Book that, (begging his pardon, it is not 
so), but that the W. would be nearly equally divided. 
Moreover, that though, as I said, the majority of racing 
men would go to the 8.W., it would not be so with the 
Oxford contingent, who I may be pardoned for saying are 
at least, at present, the pick of the lot. At the same time 
I am far from saying that when once we have obtained a 
geographically correct division we should alter it solely 
because it is not evenly populated. 

4. Accessibility of the present W.D. from both sides. 
" D." says that the meandering course of a river does not 
unfit it for performing the office of a boundary. I reply 
that it must be a question of the size of each separate 
" meander " that it makes, for he would hardly, I suppose, 
still consider it a satisfactory division if the loop to the 
south at Shepperton extended far enough in that direction 
to include Ripley in the N.W. District, as it easily might 
do. Shepperton itself, (at present in the N.W.), is about 
10 miles south of London. He adds that he did not know 
that the division between Districts ought to be impassable. 
Nor did I ; nor did I say it ought. I said that it could 
not be argued that it would not be possible for men to 
get to a District meeting place on the other side of the 
river, and that therefore it must be a boundary between 
two Districts," as it is possible so to argue with regard to the 
Lower Thames. That is to say, if there is an impassable 
line (as in the east), the Club must arrange that it runs 
between two Districts and not through one ; if there is not 
(as in the west), the Club is at liberty to fix its boundary 
line as seems best to itself. I am sorry not to have made 
myself clear on this point. 

The raiswh d'etre of the W. D. is, I am told, " that a 
number of members live more in the heart of London, and 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 71 



are consequently somewhat differently placed with regard 
to Meets from members of other Districts." I am not 
certain that I understand what is meant by this statement, 
but I take it that if they live " in the heart of London," 
it would not take them much longer to get out to the N. W. 
or S.W. than it would in a westerly direction, radii being 
of equal length. 

I am greatly obliged to " Districtus " for answering me on 
the seriatim system, as it renders it infinitely easier to say 
what one wants to say concisely, and it has helped me very 
greatly in answering his objections. He concludes with an 
insinuation that I want the meeting place altered because 
I am afraid of tram-lines. Will he excuse my saying that 
in the last five years I have ridden xather more than 
thirteen thousand miles, of which a great part has been 
done in the neighbourhood of London ; that I have never 
been thrown by a tram-line, nor in fiact have I fallen 
at all inside the four mile circle since I ran into the 
back of a "Royal Oak" 'bus in '78. Moreover, I have 
had some additional experience of tram-lines at Bath 
and Cambridge. I am sorry to be egotistical, especially 
as after sa3ang what I have, and can hardly hope to 
escape without " a smash " next time I am riding in 
London ; but I wish it to be seen that it is not on my 
own account that I desire a change. 

My second opponent is more difficult to deal with ; but 
I gather that the raison iStre of the west is " that a very 
considerable minority of the two districts resided at 
Kensington, Ghiswick, Acton, and Willesden, and that to 
attend their Meets it was necessary for them to go distances 
varyingPromfourtotenmiles." Thereare three points here : — 

1st. It is at present seven miles for members in London 
to get to the West Meets. 

2nd. A very considerable minority" of the S.E. live 
at Blackheath, but they get on, as I said above, without an 
East District. 

drd. The apologists disagree as to whether the W. D. 
was formed to suit suburban riders, or those " in the heart 
of London." There really seems to be some difficulty in 
sajdng why it was formed. 

The next argument is that the present attendance in the 
West is "satisfactory, remembering that we have fewer 
members in this District than any other save the S.W." 
Surely this is only one more reason for fasing the West 
in some such way as I have suggested for the benefit of 
its neighbours, especially as the attendance in the S.W. is 
hopelessly bad. Likewise it might be pointed out that at 
the time of the publication of the Blue Book for this year, 
the N.E. also was smaller than the W., though, perhaps, it 
may not be so now. 

Lastly, it appears to me that a compact big body such 
as the S.E. can as easily become personally acquainted as a 
compact little one. — ^Yours truly, J. S. Whatton. 

Trin. Coll., Camb. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
Tlie sagacity of the mighty men of old who selected 
the L.B.C. uniform was enormous, if we judge them by the 
extent of the imitation, the sincerest flattery, according to 
the proverb, which their choice has received. First the 
Cyclists' Touring Club adopts a not dissimilar grey for its 
thousands of members, and now the whole British Army is 
to face the foe, clad in the same useful and inobtrusive 
colour. 

• «««•« 

The Tricycle Union has afforded a striking demonstration 
of the accuracy of those who said it was not wanted, by 
adopting en masse the " objects " of the B. U. as its own. 
What programme and what achievements Messrs. Browning, 
Bell, and Co., might have shown is, unfortunately, likely to 

remain in the regions of the " might have been." 

• ••••• 

Ooe hardly feels that the racing-man is abroad till the 
Oval has been crowded with enthusiastic supporters of the 
Surrey B.C., and next Saturday witnesses that great sight. 

Among recent performances of note are — 

106 miles in 12h. 28m. (riding time llh. 18m.), by a 
member of the London Tricycle Club on a 40- in. " Facile." 

100 miles in 9h. 22m. (riding time 8h. 52m.), on a 
"Premier Roadster" Tricycle, by A. Nixon of the L.T.C. 
The course was Upper Norwood to Brighton and back. I 
commend this to those who have, if ever, to fix a time 
limit for tricycles in the Road Trial. The first 60 miles 
were ridden in 4h. 19m. Mr. Nixon also lays claim to 48 
miles in 3h. 39m. on the same road. 

Howell won a Twenty Miles Professional Championship 
at Leicester in Ih. 5m. OJs. Contrary to usual professional 
tactics the winner made the pace and covered 5 miles 

in 15m. 14s. 

• ••••• 

I am indebted to our official Handicapper for the entries 
for the Surrey Ten Miles, which are as follows : — 

Crute, W. K. Adam, Thompson, Jephson, Prentice (of 
Ipswich), King (of Salisbury), Wyndham, Wilson, Lowndes, 
Vesey, Oaskell, and Moore of Birmingham. 

Oaskell is the present holder, but in the early spring it 
is almost impossible to give any opinion as to the winner. 
In last year's form Moore should win easily, but as it is, the 
race looks very open. 

Nearly 70 entries have been received for the Mile Handi- 
cap ; among these the most prominent are Moore, F. L. Adam, 
H. R. Reynolds, King, Wyndham, Thompson, W. K. Adam, 
Lawton, Perry, Crute, and Vesey. 

The new Alexandra Palace track is now open for bicyclists, 
and though the terms for the clubs seem very high, our 
N. W. members can get a month's practice for five shillings. 
We shall watch the N.W. team for the District Challenge 
Cup with interest. The Front Wheel Hub. 



Digitized by Vj^Li^l^L 



72 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



QUILM. 

" ArktoUe and Fliny ddiyer it that the pozpentlne eaflteth off his quillB 
wheA he would attack, or defend himself, bnt Dioscorides aflSrmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it,"— Sir T. Bbowni. 

I hope in the excitement of Bath Monday our members 
are keeping their heads clear enough to remember that we 
ride to Dunstable to meet the Universities on the Saturday 
after, May 19th. Every member of the Club ought to turn 
out then. Those who remember the bands, and the Sugar 
Loaf," and the ride home the lext day vtd Ghenies — (oh ! 
that firuit-tart and cream) — are sure to come. 

The route taken by the N.B., N.W., and W. Districts 
from Eew to Halliford was first rate, but I cannot under- 
stand why the official arrangements were ignored. 

A lot of time was wasted at Kew by crossing and re- 
crossing the bridge, and discussing the merits of the 
various routes. I hope on the next occasion that the best 
road will be chosen beforehand, and that the arrangements 

made in the Gazette will be strictly adhered to. 

#•*••• 

The pace throughout the outward journey was fortunately 
lively, for if the ordinary Club crawl had been indulged in 

it would have been dark before Halliford was reached. 

• «•••* 

Great regret was expressed a short time ago at the resig- 
nation of a well-known musical member of the S.£. I 
understand that a superior attraction outside has got 
something to do with it, and that the Croydon Ball is 

partly responsible. 

• ♦ • • • • 

Ex-editor to the N.E. District, just arrived at the "Ship," 
Halliford.—" Where's the D.C. V' Audacious member.— 
I found him " over head and ears " in work at his office 
this morning. Ex-editor, dumbfounded. — ^At his office I 

and weren't you thrown out of the window ? 

• ••«•• 

Amonff the La Crosse team that represented the south 

against the north on Saturday last, I see the names of A. P. 

and E. H. Barrett \ the latter distinguished himself greatly, 
e e • 

S.R members were sorry to miss W. C. Oswald from their 
ranks on Saturday. A bad fall on the previous Tuesday, 
resulting in a sprained knee, was the unfortunate cause of 
his absence. 

Vis consili expers mole rait md" ejaculated the Club 

scholiast, as he picked himself up from among the ruins of 

his " Humber." Even an unpremeditated somersault could 

not cure him of that detestable practice of airing his latinity 

on all possible occasions. . 

«•#*•• 

Quite a number of L.B.O. men were at the wedding of 
Norman Morris at Chislehurst on Wednesday, 24th inst. 
I noticed Alison, Ashley Barrett, Powel, Morris, Jun., and 
Buckler. It is rumoured that they were rewarded by sub- 
sequent festivities in the luncheon marquee after having 
stopped the S.E. express for the happy pair en route to 

Folkestone. 

• «•«#• 

Whit-Monday is now close upon us. Our red hot com- 
petitors have already got as far as " I may perhaps put my 

name down." 

• •«••• 

Several old faces will again be seen at the " White Lion," 
and amoncst those who, although they will not compete, 
will still be drawn thither at Whitsuntide by a kind of 



magnetic influence, will be the O'Reilly, M. D. Rucker, 

and G. Newman. 

• ••••• 

Amongst the competitors, too, there will be some old 
hands. 0. Thorn wiU ride for the fourth time, and will be 

known in future as " Bath Oliver." 

• • • • • • 

I hear rumours to the effect that Theo. Godlee will start 
on one of his' crocks in order to demonstrate the fallacy of 
the hard-training tendencies of the present as compared 
with the method followed by the grand olcT competitor of 
the past, who never thought about the Trial beforehand, 

and never rode more than once a week. 

• «•«•• 

The directions of the route published in this issue are no 
doubt very useful, and last year I took Rambler's advice 
and cut them out. Riding down Box Hill on Saturday 
afternoon, I was attempting to draw them from the recesses 
of my pocket when I ran against a loose stone and was shot 
over the handles, amidst a rattle of steel and some gentle 
remarks on Rambler. Poiioupinb. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Btde 40 enacts that no member represent the Glab at any race meeting 
without permiaaion from the Captain. The following list of Racintr 
FixtureB has been sabmitted to the Ci^tain, who aanctions onr 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is reqaested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

April 28.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

28. — Surrey B.C. at Eennington Oval. 

12. — Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 
14. — Scottish Games and Kcyde Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 

26.^L. AC. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9.— C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 

13. — O.U.BLC. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16. — London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 



May 



June 



WEST DISTRICT. 
Next Saturday, April 28th. the Captain, Ashley Barrett, 
intends to honour us with his presence. I hojfe members 
will kindly turn up in force in order to give hun a hearty 
welcome. The run is to Rickmansworth, starting from 
Savernake Cottage at 3.45 punctually. 

Harold C. Pigott, District Captain. 



The District Visitor returns thanks to Mr. W. A. Smith 
for not making an exception of him re Western District 
Runs, and will be only too delighted to support the New 
D.C. as soon as the tendon strained at Easter will allow of 
his riding. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions nurt be addreased to '* The Editor, L.KC. Gazette, 
86, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
neceBsarily for insertion. They must be written on one dde of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evt-ning. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Babling & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, B.C.— April 26, 1888. 



Digitized by 



GbogTe 



An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VI. No. 9.] ^^™^^^ASTi.il^;^i?^^^^^ May 3, 1883. 



OONT 

FAGI 



The Captain' 78 

DunsUbleMeet 74 

The Road Trial 74 

Bath Trial 74 

The Annual Race Meeting 76 

Saturday Runs 75 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for " Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



THE CAPTAIN. 

Let it not be imagined from the title that we propose 
this week to give a racy sketch of the Captain at Home, in 
which such interesting details as the particular vintage or 
brand of cigars the great man affects are to be divulged to 
the Club at large. Far be it from us thus to pander to idle 
curiosity. Nor are we intending a eulogistic category of 
the different men who have in turn held the Captaincy 
from the archaic period when the honour of being Captain 
was actually ridden for, down to the present more en- 
lightened era ; for do not their merits collectively shine 
forth in the flourishing condition of the Club ? This is a 
panegyric worth more than any words of ours. 

In the Club generally little is known of the duties of the 
Captaincy. The gilded symbol of dignity is not un- 
frequently supposed to bring but few cares in its train. On 
some occasions, such as the Bace Meeting, the General 
Meets, the Captain has certainly to be present ; and at the 
Annual Dinner he is expected to make a bald statement of 
facts interesting to the company assembled. Then on 
Whit-Monday he is obliged to be down at Bath, and has to 
get up at some abnormally early hour in order to despatch 
a score or so of hare-brained enthusiasts who are bent on 
spending a summer holiday amid the turmoil of the Bath 



BNTS. 

PAOB 



ClubMeeta 76 

An Round the Wheel 76 

Bicjrciing in Switzerland 77 

Correspondence 

Quills ^ 80 

Racing Fixtures 80 



Bead, — though the time may come when the Captain may 
once more so far sink his dignity as to accompany, aye, 
and perhaps show the way to his men from Bath to the 
notorious ninth milestone. 

But these are only mere details, as one would say who 
knows anything of the work comprised in the management 
of a Club like ours, or of the stern discipline of the Com- 
mittee room ; who has seen the Captain s frown suppress 
at some grave discussion the indecorous frivolity of some 
irrepressible member, or has heard him elucidate some 
knotty point in the matter of Club tradition. In addition 
to this, the burden that falls on the Captain's shoulders in 
the way of correspondence is not an easy or a light one, 
such as is involved in arranging the General Meets, and 
the matches against Oxford and Cambridge. 

Without giving offence to the Captains of our Club, past, 
present, and future, we may say that the Captain is not 
merely an ornamental appendage to be picked up haphazard, 
for on him depends in no small degree the welfare of the 
whole community. In our humble opinion the model 
Captain should be conservative to the backbone ; he should 
have a keen zest for our sport itself ; like a Bayard, he 
should be ''sans peur" and ''sans reprocke;" and he 
should have the letters L.B.C., if not engraven on his heart, 
at any rate closely woven into his existence. 

As long as the Club proves itself, as it has ever done, 
capable of producing men of stuff like this, there will be 
no need for croakers to tell us that they see premonitory 
signs in the heavens of our coming decadence. 



Digitized by 



74 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



DUNSTABLE GENERAL MEET. 
To Meet the C.U.Bi.C, and O.U.BLC. ok May 19th. 

I hope all L.B.C. men will loyally support our Club on 
this occasion. The Universities are making efforts to secure 
large attendances, and it behoves each member to do his best 
to be present at this by far the more important Meet of the 
year. At our Dunstable Meet in 1881 with the Universities, 
we sent up 65 men, and I should rejoice to see this number 
beaten now. The Town Hall has been engaged, and since 
the Oxford and Cambridge men are not compelled to leato 
early, as was the case last year at St. Albans, it is expected 
that a very pleasant evening will be passed. 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 



THE ROAD TRIAL. 
To Competitors. I shall be glad if they will inform the 
Hon. Sec. not later than Wednesday, May 9th, of 
the day on which they intend to reach Bath, in order 
tliat rooms may be secured at the "White Lion" as 
in former years. If possible a special van for bicycles 
shall be obtained in the 2.30 p.m. train from Paddiugton 
to Bath on Sunday, 13th, and I hope to meet all the com- 
petitors at the " White Lion " on Sunday evening, to draw 
for places and to receive final instructions. I shall be 
happy to convey a moderate amount of luggage from Bath 
to the hotel selected for tea on Monday evening (" The 
Milford Arms," Hounslow). AH luggage must be securely 
labelled at Bath. Members are reminded that a complete 
road -riding costume must be worn in the 7 rial, and the 
L.B.C. uniform is preferred by the Committee. Further, I 
would point out the undesirabiiity of members inviting 
riders outside the Club to ride up from Bath in the Trial 
with the competitors. Such a plan seems to add to the 
danger of interference on the part of the authorities, and 
appears moreover to be unattended with any practical good. 
The programme for Whit Monday will be as follows 

5.80 a.m To call. 

6.0 „ BxeakfMt. 

7.0 „ Leave Hotel 

7.80 „ Start by Gleyekiid Bridge. 

6.0 p.m. Tea at " Milford Arms." 

The finish will be at the ninth milestone from London, 
Hounslow. The course is as follows : — 



Bath to Devises 


... Similes. 


Devizes to Beckhampton Comer ... 


... 7 „ 


Beckhampton Comer to Marlboro' 


... 6 „ 


Marlboro* to HuDgerford 


.. ioi„ 


Htingerford to Newbniy 


... 81 „ 


Newbury to Reading ... v 


... 16 „ 


Reading to Maidenhead 


... H „ 


Maidenhead to Hounslow 


... 17 „ 




100 miles. 



Care must be exercised at these four situations between 
Bath and Melksham 2— 



A. — 2J miles from Bath the road forks. Take the left 
hand one (the right goes under a bridge). 

B. — 5 miles from Bath (in the village of Box) the road 
forks. Take the left hand one by the " Bear Inn." 

0. — 8| miles from Bath, at Gorsham, the road forks. 
Take the right hand one (the left goes to Chippenham). 

D.— 8| miles from Bath, at Corsham, keep straight on at 
cross roads (the light hand one goes to railway station), 
and 100 yards beyond the cross roads, on reaching some 
curious old almshouses, take the right hand road to Melk- 
ham (5 miles) ; the road straight on leads to Lacock. 

At six p.m. tea will be provided at the *' Milford Arms *' 
for 2s. 6d. each. Warm baths also will be obtainable at a 
charge of sixpence. 

To Timers. I shall be much obliged to any gentlemen 
who will volunteer to time the competitors, and to learn 
at which place they will undertake to be present— Devizes, 
Hungerford, Reading, Slough, are as yet unoccupied. 
(Alfred Herbert wiU be at Mariboro' Hill, W. A. Smith at 
Newbury, and A. Henry at Maidenhead) Timers are re- 
quested to be at their stations, with any refreshments they 
may be good enough to provide, at least half an hour 
before the arrival of the first man, and are also requested 
to forward to me through the post their records and remarks 
by five p.m. on Tuesday, May 15th. 

AsHLET W. Babrett, Captain. 



BATH TRIAL. 
The following names have been received for the Bath 



Trial on Whit-Monday : — 




W. K. Adam. 


A. Lloyd. 


J. W. Alison. 


W. Meyer. 


*Q. F. Beck. 


A. S. Morris. 


T. D. Belfield. 


F. W. Morris. 


H. G. A. Brown. 


H. C. Pigott. 


A. C. Forster. 


*L. B. Reynolds. 


R. Q. Francis. 


♦H. R. Reynolds. 


R H. M. Francis. 


H. L. Ryan. 


R. M. Gruggen. 


K D. Sewell. 


A. Hawley. 


Harold Smith. 


H. M. Hewitt. 


*0. Thorn. 


W. T. Hill. 


*E. A. Weeks. 


E. H. Hindley. 


*C. Wigan. 


*R. B. Hough. 


W. Wyndham. 


S. G. Hough. 





The asterisk denotes a former medallist. 



ROAD TRIAL. 
Volunteers are wanted to time. Old Medallists will find 
this a grateful task. Future Medallists will find it a sure 
stepping stone to~success. 

Ashley W. Bareett, Captain. 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



75 



ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
Our Annual Race Meeting is to take place at the Crystal 
Palace on Saturday, 16th June, which is a half-crown day. 
Tickets will be obtainable from members of the Committee 
at the reduced price of Is. 6d. The railway companies 
make no reduction on half-crown days, so that anybody 
getting their tickets for the Palace for that Saturday 
through us will save a shilling on each ticket. Members 
are particularly requested to make this known to their 
friends as mucb as possible. It has not yet been decided 
whether tickets will be sent round with tiie Gazette as here- 
tofore, or whether ladies' tickets will be supplied free. 
Notice of this will be given later on. 

As will be seen from the report of the Committee, it has 
been decided to substitute a Two Miles Open Handicap 
for a One Mile. The events will therefore stand as 
follows : — 

One Mile Members' Handicap. 

Two Miles Open Handicap. 

Two Miles Members' Scratch for Ladies' Challenge. 

Five Miles Open Scratch. 

Ten Miles Members' District Challenge. 
Entrance fee for the first four events 2s. 6d. each. No 
entrance fee for District Challenge. Entry forms will be 
sent round to every member later on. 

E. S. Price. 



THE ANNUAL RACE MEETING AT THE CRYSTAL 
PALACE ON SATURDAY, JUNE 16th. 

As the Committee intend to make the Race Meeting a 
success in every way, they trust members will exert them- 
selves vigorously to sell tickets in every direction among 
their friends, remembering that for every ticket sold a 
small profit accrues to the Club. Even those who are not 
specially interested in bicycling may bo glad to buy tickets 
when they learn that these can be obtained through our 
Hon. Sec. for Is. 6d. apiece upon what is ordinarily a half- 
crown day. 

By purchasing through this channel a gain of one shilling 
upon each ticket will be effected, and the ticket so obtained 
will admit to, the Palace and grounds as well as to our 
Race Meeting. Subjoined is a comparative statement of 
expenses : — 



Ticket of Admission to 
Palace, Groands, and oar 
Race Meeting, if bought 
of the Hon. Sec 

Railway Fare, 1st Class 
Return from London to 
the Palace 

Profit 



1 6 



4 6 



Ticket of Admission to 
Palace, Grounds, and to 
our Race Meeting, if 
bought at the Palace, 
Railway Stations, or of 
other Agents 

Railway Pare, Ist Class 
Return from London to 
the Palace 



2 6 



2 
4 6 



S.W. DISTRICT.-IMPORTANT NOTICE 
Next Saturday the run is to Thames Dittou to meet the 
S.E. and W., when I earnestly hope that we may bave as 
good a muster as that which gladdened us at Halliford. If 
every member will make the necessary effort to be present 
on the occasion, we may even exceed our previous numbers. 
We meet at Kingston Station at 4.30 p.m. 

R. M. GRuaaEN, District Captain. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
28th April. For the third time running the D.C. was 
late and Kelsey and Lloyd carried out the run to Havering 
alone. Leaving the corner in fair time and proceeding by 
Woodford Bridge, Chigwell Row, and Hog Hill, and reaching 
the " Orange Tree " at about 6.40. Precisely at the same 
time the belated D.C. left Whip's Cross, and hurrying over 
the ground reached the tea table just as the original pair 
were closing their meal. He had not however had any 
attention paid to his material wants before S. 6. Hough and 
£. D. Sewell turned up from a skirmish, the latter decidedly 
the worse for wear. [Jltimately the five started home 
together, and adopting the direct route as previously 
followed which was only a little more muddy than before, 
proceeded to their various destinations. Present : S. G. 
Hough, A. A. Kelsey, A. Lloyd, E. D. Sewell, and 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



N.W. District. 

Saturday was a very uninviting day for riding, the roads 
being extremely heavy. Probably this reason, and also the 
fact that " Bath Day " is so near, which perhaps necessitates 
the whole District absenting itself from the run, may account 
for the miserable attendance. 

Only Tulloch and the D.C. left Hampstead together ; after 
bumping along to Hendon Station, Williams was met, and 
then the trio rode through the Eenton lanes to Harrow, 
where Williams and Tulloch turned back. The District 
then rode through Pinner, and arrived at Rickmansworth 
rather muddy, and very glad to meet the Captain, Meyer, 
and C. L. Hill. 

We were treated at the "Swan" in a very unusual 
manner, and some unpleasantness and incivility occurred. 
The next time we go to Rickmansworth we shall go to the 
" Dragon." The return home was " much enjoyed by all," 
the pace being very good, and we did not mind the rain. 
In fact it was only after we arrived at Euston that we got 
wet. Distance 18 miles. Present: C. L. Hill, Tulloch, 
Williams, and Palmer Dalton, District Captain. 



S.R District. 
In spite of the afternoon being rather threatening, eight 
men left Croydon on Saturday for Riverhead. On Hayes 
Common, Beck and the D.C. were met with, and at Locks 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Bottom, Stephen Smith, with the Blackheath Division, were 
found waiting. A slight sprinkling of rain, and some big, 
black clouds drifting down with the wind gave the candi- 
dates for Bath honours an excellent excuse for putting on 
the pace, and the leaders managed to reach the " Amherst 
Anns" just as the rain began to come down in earnest. 
Fourteen men and one visitor sat down to an excellent tea, 
and after a pleasant evening we made the best of our way 
homewards through rain and mud. Seventeen men 
altogether attended the Meet^ and considering state of 
the weather and roads the number speaks well for the 
vitality of the District. Though still suffering from a 
bad knee, W. C. Oswald very pluckily came with us the 



whole way. Present : G. F. Beck, H. G. A. Brown, R. H. M. 
Francis, Halliday, Alf. Herbert, S. Herbert, F. G. Marten, 
H. G. Morgan, W. C. Oswald, PauU, F. B. Smith, S. P. 
Smith, F. H. Williams, Willis, S. E. WheaUer, H. Young; 
and B. G. Fbancis, District Captain. 

Given fine weather, we ought to have the best Meet we 
have had this year at Thames Ditton next Saturday. Several 
of our racing members have promised to be present, and all 
those who had tea at the Swan " last season will, I am sure, 
be anxious to repeat the visit. The Croydon Division will 
leave the Fire Station at 4.30 sharp, and proceed by Ewell, 
where a short halt will be made at the " Glyn Arms " until 
a quarter past five. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W, 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Diviaion. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


Mays. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.S0, 
and Sybom's Corner 
3.45, for HoDDXS- 
DON. Old SaliB- 
bury ArmB.") 


Jack Straw's Gas. 
tie" 3.45andTaUy- 
ho ! 4.30, for CoL- 
VST Hkath. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MiU HiU Koad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Thames Dittoii. 
("Swan.") Meet 
S.W. and S.E. 


Kingston Station, 
4.30, for Thamis 
Ditton. MeetS.E. 
and W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Thaicks Ditton. 
Meet W. and S.W. 


8.45, Old Lewisham 
Church, for Thajus 
Ditton. Meet W. 
and S.W. 



May 12.— No Official Run. 



May 19.— DuNBTABLS. General Meet with the O.U.Bi.C. and C.IJ.BLC. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
I have just seen the Meet Card of the C.U.BLC, ^vhich 
bears traces of the energy of the new captain. The runs 
include Haileybury, Baldock, and Bedford, and in several 
cases the men return by train. This ought to lead members 
to visit places some way from Cambridge, which, but for 
the additional interest of a Club Meet, they might not be 

energetic enough to do. 

• • • ♦ • • 

The Cambridge University Trials are fixed for May 26th ; 
the Inter-University Race being on June 5th at Oxford. 
The Club Races on Monday, June 11th, include an Invita- 
tion Race of five miles. 

• •«•«• 

The C.U.BIC. has purchased a double tricycle, the use of 
which is obtained either by an extra subscription, or by 
hire for the day. I suppose the next thing I shall hear of 

will be that the Inter- Varsity Sociable Race is coming off. 

• •«••• 

The Cambridge Committee are also encouraging rising 
talent by offering time-medals to members who have not 
ridden against Oxford. The two standards are 1 mile, 
3 min. ; 10 miles, 33 min. I hope the effect of this stroke 
of statesmanship will not be an L.B.C. defeat on the 9th of 
June. At present our t^am seems likely to be rather a 
good one. 

° • • • • • • 

Both at Stamford Bridge and the Oval the long start men 
seem to have had a benefit ou Saturday. At the Oval, 
only two out of the eight heats in the Mile were won by 
men with less than 100 yards start, the two lucky men 



being Tacagni, with 55 yards, and H. F. Wilson, of the 
Surrey, with 85 yards. The final was won rather easily 
by Hay, of the Queen's 'Cycling Club, with 135 yards, 
Wilson and Cassall (150 yards) of the Barretta B.C. — 
(Has this club anything to do with the Captain's family ?) — 
running a dead heat for second. Time, 3 min. 26| sec. 
Reynolds and Wyndham were the only two L.B.C. men 
riding. 

In the Ten Miles, the competitors soon tailed off. 
Wyndham made pace at first, and Jephson showed up 
prominently for the first three or four miles; but after 
half distance there were only four men in it, and in the 
last lap Gaskell, the holder, won by ten yards from Prentice 
of the Ipswich B.C., who had beaten Moore of Birmingham 
in the last 100 yards. Time, 42 min. 9} sec. Gaskell has 
now only to win the Cup at the Autumn Meeting to become 
its absolute owner. As usual, the spectators ran all over 
the track at the end of the race. It is a pity that this 
one flaw on a splendidly managed meeting cannot^ be 
removed. 

• •««•• 

At Stamford Bridge, Leeds, with 250 yards start, secured 
the Two Miles Handicap by two yards from Pemberton 
(280) in 6min. 3j8ec., Dundas (70) being third. 0. Thorn 
(140) was just beaten by Dundas for second place in his 
heat. Milner (scratch) and J. D. Butler (80) were among 
the unplaced men. 

The Fbont Wheel Hub. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



77 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(CONTINUED FBOK PAOB 70.) 

§ 16. — Other rides from Lucerne, 
I have given a somewhat vague title to this section, 
because the rides I have here to liiention are either (a) of 
insufficient importance to deserve separate treatment, or 
(b) roads of which I have had as yet no personal experience. 
I have described all possible rides in a southerly direction, 
except that an excursion might be made round the Alpnach 
Bay of the Lake by combining with the Bruuig road a 
road which leads back again from Sarnen, through Kerns 
to Stanz, distance 9 miles : from Sarnen there will be an 
ascent of about 420 feet to the highest point, about 3^ miles 
off, after which there is a gradual descent of 500 feet to 
Stanz ; but I cannot bear any personal testimony to the 
condition of the road. The only westerly route is the 
Emmenthal road (see § 8b), and easterly, the only road not 
already mentioned is one from Schwyz (or rather Ibach), 
following the course of the river into the Muotta Thai, a 
valley of reputed beauty ; but this, again, I have not had 
time to explore. But to the north and north-west there 
are plenty of roads affording, by means of cross roads, an 
endless variety of rounds. I have been along most of them, 
and they call for no particular comment. Thus a nice 
found (22 miles) may be made by going to the historical 
old town and lake of Sempach, by Neuenkirchen, and 
returning by Rain and Rothenburg. If more extensive 
expeditions are in request, you can ride* to Langenthal by 
the Emmenthal road, which you leave at Wohlhausen. 
Here you keep straight on instead of turning to the left, 
and take the road to Willisau and Huttwyl. From 
Langenthal you can return by Aarburg, Zofingen, and 
Sursee. The distance for the whole round is about 80 miles, 
but trains are available for any portions of the return 
journey. Again, there are two^main roads between Lucerne 
and Aarau, one (A) by Neuenkirchen, Sursee and Shoftland, 
and (B) the return by Granichen, Munster, Hildisrieden, 
and Rothenburg, about 30 miles each way. Aarau is 
150 feet or more lower than Lhcerne, ahd the highest point 
of road (A) is Neuenkirchen, which is 400 feet above Lucerne^ 
and of road (B) Hildisrieden, which is 750 feet above it. 
There are also three roads to Zurich, of which more 
hereafter. The bicyclist ought not, therefore, to be at any 
loss for rides from Lucerne. My last ride in 1880 was 
from Lucerne to Bale by the following route : 



Height 



Diitanoe. 



1425 
1810 
1635 
1750 
1660 
1490 
1480 
1290 
1295 
870 



— Lucerne. 

6i Neuenkirchen. 

14i Snnee. 

17 St. Erhard. 

20 Uffikon. 

24i Keiden. 

28 Zofingen. 

81 Aarbnrg. 

884 Olten) ^^g, 

584 Bale « ^• 



Having started all my luggage by the first train, I left 



Lucerne at 6.0 in the morning, reaching Bale at 12.20. 
I rested fifty minutes at Sursee for breakfast, and twenty 
minutes at Olten. I had twice to dismount and wait for 
trains at crossings, and had to walk up the greater part of 
the Hauenstein hill, so that the time taken in actual riding 
is suflScient testimony to the excellence of the road. I 
timed myself over 10 kilometres (i.^. 6 miles and 240 yards) 
between Uffikon and Zofingen, which I did in twenty-four 
minutes, passing each of the 5-kilometre posts in twelve 
minutes exactly. It gives one some notion of how modern 
locomotive improvements annihilate time and space, to 
think that one could start in the very centre of Swiss 
mountains for a day's bicycle excursion (as it were), and 
yet be in rooms in college, as I was, the next evening. 

Before passing on to Zurich I will just look at my note- 
book and see if there are any further points about Lucerne, 
mention of which is likely to prove serviceable to a fellow- 
bicyclist. There are baths in the Lake about quarter of a 
mile beyond the National — charge, 80 centimes ; they are 
one of the weak points of Lucerne, which certainly ought to 
possess better accommodation in this respect ; still you can 
swim at will out into the lake as they are not enclosed. 
There is a most astonishing variation of temperature in the 
Lake; on a warm still day the water will be tepid and 
enervating, whilst, should a sudden storm spring up in the 
night and stir the water up, you will find it the next morning 
as cold and bracing as you can desire. The baths in the 
river at the extreme end of the town, on the same side of it 
as the hotels are better fitted up and cheaper, and the water 
being in rapid motion is pleasanter, but the enclosure is 
somewhat shallow for diving. You cannot ride your bicycle 
to these as you can to the Lake baths. 

The ascent of Pilatus is a mountain excursion feasible for 
bicyclists by riding either to Hergiswyl, or Alpnacht ; but 
as taking your bicycle implies descending by the same route, 
I should counsel leaving it at home and going by boat to 
Alpnacht, and making the ascent from there, and descending 
to Hergiswyl, whence you would walk back again to 
Stanzstad to get the return boat. This is by far the best 
route to take as regards views, etc. The Rigi should be 
ascended in the train, but to walk down it on either side is, 
as the Germans say, " rewarding." There is a good path to 
the top of the Mythen above Schwyz. 

Whenever you have a few spare minutes on hand before 
or after a ride, whether at Lucerne or elsewhere, it is 
worth while remembering that nine horses out of every ten 
which are likely to be met on a Swiss excursion are sure at 
^ome time or other to be waiting in the ranks at the post 
office, the railway station, or steamboat stages. To take an 
occasional turn or two up and down in front of them is 
therefore an occupation which may be of general and lasting 
service both to bicyclists and carriage tourists, and should 
never be neglected when opportunity o£fers. There is ample 
scope for this at places like Lucerne, Zurich, Interlachen — 



Googl( 



Digitized by 



78 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



in fact at all important centres of tourist traffic. You can 
thus familiarise the Swiss horse ''in gross," instead of waiting 
to take him '' in detail." 

The view from the cloisters of the churchyard at Lucerne 
is very pretty, and you will moreover hear the organ to 
decidedly the best advantage from outside, (performance 
at 6.30 p.m.) ; but you must keep a careful look out on the 
pavement before you, as well as at the view, or you will be 
the innocent and unintentional means of giving seriou^ 
offence by treading on some wreath or upsetting some vase 
of flowers placed there in tender memory of the dead. 

You are not likely to be at Lucerne a week without coming 
in for some illuminations or displays of fireworks, either in 
Lucerne itself (most generally at the " Schweizerhof,") or at 
some of the big mountain hotels, such as the " Biirgenstock" 
or *' Rigi Kulm." They are really very creditable, and the 
effect of the lights on the lake is charming. 

§ 17. — Lucerne to Zurich, 

Zurich may be reached by one of three roads : — 

(A) By Cham, Metroenstetten, and Birmensdorf. 

(B) By Zug and the Albis Pass. 

(C) By Zug, Sihlbriicke, and Horgen. 

The Albis (B) may also be taken by diverging from (A) at 
Metmenstetten. I have not been over the Albis myself, 
but it is a recognised coach road and sure to be good ; it 
takes you, however, 300 feet higher than either of the 
other two. Reserving (C) for another section (see § 19), I 
will here describe (A). 

Height. Distance. 

Feet. Miles. 

1426 — Lucerne j « lox 

1356 18J Cham j 8 18). 

1640 ISi MetmenBtetten. 

1625 2H Affoltem. 

1750 24 BoDBtetten (torning short of) 

1500 27i Birmenadorf. 

1980 80i TopofHiU. 

1850 84 Zurich. 

Be careful not to miss your turn to the left just after 
crossing the river at Cham. At Metmenstetten keep 
straight on — the broad road leading up through the village 
to the right will take you to the Albis Pass. You fork to 
the left before reaching Bonstetten and cross the railway 
(bridge) ; it is a gentle downhill to Birmensdorf (where you 
have to bear to the right), but you will find the mount up 
again across a spur of the Uetliberg a little too long to 
ride. The map shows a straight cut on to this hill through 
Bonstetten and avoiding Birmensdorf, but from what I 
could see of this I do not think it would be any gain to 
take it as it is only a bye road. The hill down into Zurich 
is good riding. There are gravel as well as paved street^ 
in Zurich, and the latter in that portion of the town by 
which you enter were very good riding two years ago, but 
I regret to have to report that that street-Moloch, the 
tram-demon, is now in full diabolical possession. There 
are some good hotels close to the station at Zurich ; but 
the ''Baur au Lac" has the greatest attraction for me, 
being on the lake and close to the baths, which are about 



the best in Switzerland. The road passing it (the Thai Oasse) 
and leading by the Botanical Gardens into the Lowen Gasse 
(see plan of town in Baedeker), though forming two sides 
of a triangle, will be your best route to and from lake and 
station as there is neither tram nor pavement in it. 

Zurich is not a place where people stay for any length 
of time ; they come for the night and pass on. The way 
in which the omnibus service is managed at the " Baur au 
Lac," with the numbers constantly coming and going at all 
hours of the day, is most creditable ; equally so their 
unusual piece of hotel discipline in closing the doors of the 
Salle k Manger at table d'h6te, and not allowing you to 
take a seat at it if yon are late. . Their beefsteaks are the 
very best I have had anywhere abroad, and they have an 
excellent stock of Ghianti, of which one seldom tires. 
Baedeker stigmatises the Hotel as ''dear" — an unusual 
thing for him — but though their prices are those of a first- 
class hotel, I cannot say that, considering how good every- 
thing was, there was any charge that we found unreasonable, 
and we were there nearly a fortnight. In the little 
colonnaded square (the Central Hof) close by is a lunch 
shop for Swiss pastry and ices (J. Capaul), which would 
suit my friend the President down to the ground ; and I 
am sure if he had once been there he would always be off to 
Zurich for training purposes whenever a big match was 
impending. The chocolate (liquid) deserves special men- 
tion. There are railways in all directions from Zurich, and 
a double service of steamers, one for each side of the lake, 
with^ubsidiary boats plying backwards and forwards between 
the two ; so you have plenty of means of extending your 
bicycling range. Two facts about the railway require men- 
tion : — 1. If you wish to go anywhere beyond the Lake in 
a S.E. direction, e.g., to Glarus or Ragatz, you will always 
make a shorter journey uf it by taking the line through 
Horgen on the W. side of the lake instead of the older line 
by Rapperschwyl on .the other side. The two train services 
unite at Ziegelbriicke, and in returning you should be 
careful to ascertain at this junction whether it is necessary 
for you to change or not. 2. There is a second station at 
Zurich called Enge, on the Horgen line, which is much nearer 
the Baur au Lac end of the town than the big station, and a 
great deal of time may be saved by using it. Going along 
the Thai Gasse from the Baur au Lac, turn to your left 
across the bridge, after which take third turning to left 
(Alpen Strasse), then again turn to the right, and you will 
find the station a little way along on your left. In this way 
you reach it without having to cross the line ; whereas, if 
you followed round by the main street you might find the 
barrier up in view of the very train you wanted to catch. 
Good music is to be heard every evening at the Tonhalle, 
but in an overpowering atmosphere of supper and tobacco. 
In case of accidents there is a large wheelwright's establish- 
ment (I have forgotten the name) in the Wiesen Strasse, 
beyond the Tonhalle, and the Zuricbers are skilful mechanics. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



79 



§ 18. — Circuit of the Lake. 

This may be made in either direction, but the views are 
seen to best advantage if you go by the eastern and return 
by the western bank. You do not complete the entire 
circuit of the lake, as the extreme upper portion of it is now 
cut ofiT from the rest by a dam, along which railway and road 
are carried from Rapperschwyl to PfaiEkon. The roads, except 
the bit leading frt)m the dam into the main-road at Pfaffikon, 
are excellent throughout, and the changes of level are not 
worth noticing. The distances are — 





East Bank. 




West Bank. 






28 








27| 




lOi 


Meilen. 


80 




18 




85 




15 


Stftfa 


Hi 




21 









There is a nice hotel at Wadensohwyl, the "Anger' 
(Engel), which is worth a visit if only to see their public 
room for dancing, etc., a fine large room with galleries all 
round. It will give you some notion of how the good folk 
of Zurich and the district enjoy themselves if you get hold 
of a number of the Weekly Sjurich Advertiser. I have 
forgotten what the paper calls itself, but it contains adver- 
tisements only. You will find there column after column 
of announcements of "soirees dansantes" and other 
musical entertainments at the various waterside hostelries 
all down the lake. The radiant prosperity of these villages 
on the lake, with their fine houses surrounded with fruit 
trees and flowers, is in itself a sight worth visiting Zurich 
for. Our ride round the lake would have been the most 
enjoyable ride of all but for a serious catastrophe in 
Uetikon, a village between Meilen and Manedorf. Here 
one of the tallest dogs I ever saw went for me and unfor- 
tunately got me, giving me a bite above the ankle and 
involving machine and rider in very forcible collision with 
the hard ground. Beyond scars and bruises seriously 
modifying my personal appearance in the direction of 
pugilistic colouring I happily suffered little, and though 
the shaking was a severe one I managed to complete the 
remaining 83 miles of the round. The rule is for all dogs 
in Switzerland to make for you ; but beyond sending your 
heart into your mouth when you feel the breath of their 
snarl on your calf, tbey hardly ever succeed in doing any 
harm, and after a ride or two you get perfectly callous 
about them. This dog who bit and upset me, as well as 
the dog who did not make for us on the Axeustrasse 
(see S 12), are the exceptions to prove the rule. This dog 
nuisance will, I suppose, die a natural death as bicycling 
increases there ; but for the present there is no help for it. 
No mechanical deterrent that you could take with you is 
worth the bother of carrjring. The best plan is to take no 
notice of the dog unless he seems to be getting angry, then 
you should turn round and fix your eye on him, at the 
same time treating him to some not too gentle objurgation. 



Very often he is satisfied when he has had auricular evi- 
dence that you are 'the master ' man, and not merely part 
of the machine. 
August, 1882. Gerabd P. Cobb. 

{To be continued.) 



THE SOUTH-WEST DISTRICT. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — In perusing Mr. J. S. Whatton's exhaustive letter 
upon the above subject in the last issue of the Gazette, I 
was surprised to see the attempt he had made to add force 
and emphasis to his arguments by an unseemly indulgence 
in positive abuse, which might, if it were allowed to pass 
unnoticed, endanger the reputation of the S.W.D. There 
might perhaps have been an additional reason for the 
amalgamation of the S.W. with the W. District if Mr. 
Whatton's erroneous denunciation of our attendances as 
" hopelessly bad " were in any way correct. Compared 
with the attendances of last year in the W. they are much 
better, and as to there being anything " hopeless " about 
us, I must, in the interests of the District, altogether re- 
pudiate the statement Frivolous denunciations such as 
these might tend, if not modified and corrected, ^to mislead 
or perhaps dishearten even some of those of our own 
District, who must be better informed, but who, like myself, 
were doubtless unprepared for so startling an announce- 
ment. I must refer Mr. Whatton to the Blue Book for 
1883, recently issued, and there on page 26 he will find 
that we have given a better account of ourselves than his 
remarks might lead others to imagine. It will at once be 
seen that proportionately we compared exceedingly favour- 
ably, not alone with the W., but even also with the S.E.D. 
last year. We had during last season only 21 men in the 
S.W. District, as against 40 in the W. and 70 members in 
the S.E., when our average attendance at meets through- 
out the riding season is set down as 6 men per meet, as 
compared with 6.37 in the W. and 14.13 in the S.E.D. 
Now I would ask in all fairness, is this hopelessly bad ? " 
and does not this account of ourselves entitle us to take a 
place among the Districts of the Club ? We cannot be held 
responsible for the fact that so few members of the Club 
reside in the S.W.D. ; in this we must always take our 
chance, but we can and do encourage those who belong to 
it to come as often as possible to our runs ; and this our 
analysis abundantly proves. I may further add that our 
average this year up to the present time is very satisfactory, 
and I earnestly hope that so long as we can continue to 
render a good account of ourselves the " harebrained chatter 
of irresponsible frivolity" will not be continued, against 
us.— -Yours truly, R. M. Grugqen, District Captain. 
[Is R. M. 6. accurate in saying that the average attendance 
for 1882 of the S.W. is 6 men ; we understood that the 
nobler sex had a large share in the average. — ^Ed.] 



Digitized by 



80 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
SXEL, — I am sorry to see that the Committee have thought 
fit to reverse the decision of the Race Committee, viz., that 
the distance of the open handicap at our meeting on June 
16th should be one mile instead of two. Though I sympa- 
thise in the main with most of Mr. Scrutton's argument, I 
yet think that for this year at any rate the distance should 
be one mile instead of two, and I believe most of our racing 
members are of the same opinion. My reason is th' — at 
least two other meetings unfortunately clash w \ ^ on 
June 16th, and it is therefore douhlv -Vr-^ -u the 

distance of our open handicap should be the popoluar one 
of one mile and not the comparatively unpopular one of 
two miles. I fear that the action of the general Committee 
will cost us the loss of some twenty or thirty entries at 
least, and I appeal to them for this financial reason only to 
reconsider their decision. — Yours truly, 

H. R. Reynolds, Jun. 

18, Fenchurch Street, E.C., 
April 27th. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine caiiteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowne. 

This month's issue of Our Own Country, published by 
Cassell's, contains an interesting description of Bath. 

Members must not forget that Mr. Barrington, bicycle 
manufacturer, Bath, who has done good service to our men 
in the ; ^t, is prepared, if necessary, to get up at three 
o'clock on Monday morning to execute repairs. 

• • • • ft • 

A new branch of the District Railway has just been 
opened from Hounslow. This may, perhaps, be found 
useful on Whit Monday. ' 

« « • • • • 

I heard fearful accounts at first of F. L. Adam's accident 
while practising at the Crystal Palace, but am glad to say 
that the ill tidings were, in this case, worse than the reality, 
and that we may expect to see him on the wheel again before 
long. 

• • • ft • ft 

From the Detroit Free Press uf April 28th, 1883— 
TWO STABLE REMARKS. 

BT 8. CONANT FOSTEB. 

He bridled up— in horsey tones 

Whipped out this bil-ter shaft : 
" He who on cycle tires his bones 

Is cranky, weak, and daft.'* 
" A trace of choler, sir, you show " — 

Thus spoke the man of steel : 
" Your sulky life is full of whoa, 

My cranky one of wheel." 



The N.E. D.C. is talking of resigning, for fear his per- 
sistent lateness should result in a more unpleasant species 
of retirement, but it is rumoured that the rules do not 

provide for ejecting a D.C. 

ft • • « • • 

The genial clodhoppers who turned into the Orange 

Tree " at Havering on Saturday were loud in the praises 

of the splendid weafher and glorious change, which the wet 

and muddy (!yclists could hardly sympathise with. 

POECUPINB. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Rule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at ary of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to conmiunicate with the Captain. 

May 12. — Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 

14.— Scottish Games and Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26.— C.U.Bi.C. University Trials, Cambridge. 
26.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2. — Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — ^Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool 
6. — Inter-University Races at Oxford. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9.— C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
11.— C.U.Bi.C. Club Races, Cambridge. 
13.— O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16. — London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
19. — University College Hospital at Stamford 
Bridge. 



[Editorial Note. — Up to the time of going to press the 
accounts of runs fr the W. and S.W. Districts have not 
come to hand. Tliis is probably owing to their recent 
development of energy, resulting in exhaustion in the 
District Captains.] ^ 

,\.,^^EXCHANGE LIST. 
Special 52-Tri. Humber, built to owners specification for 
touring purposes, and of extra strength, as good as new^ 
cost price £2*1 15s. Price with ball treadles £15 ; or, with 
ordinary ditto £],4' May be seen and tried by appointment 
any evening. W. A. Smith, Savernake Cottage, Mill Hill 
Road, Acton. 

NOTICfi TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributione must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," arul must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for' inseHiun. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be receiTed not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprirtors by Darling & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Eastcheap, London, E.C.— May 3, 1888. 



Digitized by 





An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. YI. No. 10.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rights reserred] 



May 10, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



The Sporting Prophet 

Committee 

Notice— N.W. District— Special 

Editorial Notice 

The Road Trial 

Bath Trial 

Notice— Road Trial— Important 



PAOB 

81 



88 
83 
83 
88 



Bnnstable Meet ., 

Saturday Runs 

Club Meets , 

Lawn Tennik 

Trials of the Trial.. 
Bacing Fixtures .. 
QuiUs ^ 



PAOB 

.. 83 

.. 84 

.. 86 

.. 86 

.. 87 

.. 87 
87 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



'Gazette" 



THE SPORTING PROPHET. 

We have felt that the near approach of our Club " Derby 
Day/' and the publication of the entries for our annual per- 
formance of that thrilling tragedy *' Trial by Ordeal," de- 
mand some recognition of the interest taken by our members 
in the great event. We are quite aware that for some time 
past Club meets and a certain proportion of Club members 
have had no other subject of conversation than the pros- 
pects of success of this or that candidate, and the best way 
of training for and riding in the event in question. Pro- 
bably a certain number of members are, by this time, utterly 
sick of the whole topic, and long for Whit-Monday in order 
that the subject may, at any rate, be enlivened by the in- 
troduction of a discussion as to why so-and-so, who ought 
to have won, didn't win. [He never does win, so that dis- 
cussion is safe to ensue.] 

But though such clouds of words have encircled the sub- 
ject, after all, we find the most deplorable ignorance and 
confusion existing in the Club. No sooner has one man 
told us that it is a very easy year than another greets us 
with " Did you ever see such a warm set of entries ? " A 
third judicially remarks that it is an easy year for the ordi- 
nary medallist, but a hard fight for the enamelled. Our 
Editorial ear has received the names of at least ten certain 



winners, and of between twenty and thirty safe medallists, 
many of whom are also to ride first past the ninth milestone 
if only the wind will blow E. by N. i K, or the roads be 
four inches deep in mud. Our readers may judge of the 
prevailing errors when we tell them that even WE have been 
accused of being " the Dark Horse." 

To clear up this confusion we felt it our duty to engage 
at vast expense a sporting prophet to report on the situa- 
tion. We did not forget the chaTacter of his class for 
inaccuracy. We had read that classic simile to the eflfect 
that "judging of the winner of a race by consulting sport- 
ing prophets is like trying to tell the time by looking in a 
watchmaker's window;" we had heard of the indignant 
peroration of the orator, who, denouncing the enormous 
perversity in error of his opponent, wound up with the re- 
mark, " You're as wrong as— a sporting prophet." But we 
reflected that even certain inaccuracy has its advantages : 
the prophet usually hedges a little by picking three or four 
candidates for first honours, at least then his prediction 
would inform the Club of three or four men who would not 
win, and so lessen existing chaos. 

So we engaged our prophet, and he sent us daily reports 
of competitors; a little peculiar, but that was probably 
owing to his early training. Reports used to come in in 
this style : — 

" Walthamstow, 9 p.m. Sir,— North-East team did 
good work this morning ; Lloyd, Sewell, and the Houghs 
quick spin to Chelmsford and back, pulling up fresh. God- 
lee's other candidates rested to-day." [We have not been 



Google 



Digitized by 



82 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



able to disabuse him of the idea that the District Captains 
are the official trainers of their respective stables.] 

We have received a mass of reports similar to this, which 
it would take up too much of our space to publish. It is 
sufficient to say that we have a quantity of most interesting 
information about the health, dietary, and daily habits of 
a large number of members of the Club which will be iur- 
valuable to future biographers. Our prophet reported that 
he had much trouble in finding where the West candidates 
trained, or indeed in finding the West District at all, but 
that he had at last come upon traces of it at Oxford. 

We waited with interest for the final report which was 
to appear in this Gazette. We regret, however, that 
when it arrived it appeared on perusal so very unsatis- 
factory that we dared not submit it to our intelligent 
members. Our wary seer had hedged with such persistence 
by using, concerning every entry, phrases which could be 
quoted to show he had foretold the success of that 
candidate should he turn out to be the winner, that we 
reckoned up that he had provided for twenty-seven 
medals and nine enamelled medallists, with a last re- 
source" of four more members from whom " a surprise might 
come." And we felt it would be positively sinful to inflict 
such a prophecy on our readers, so we declined his article, 
referred him to our solicitor, the N. E. D. C, with the in- 
formation that we didn't know his address, but had heard 
he lived up four flights of stairs and knew he was a very 
violent man. If it is necessary to add anything to prove 
the wisdom of our course, we have only to add that our 
prophet displayed a most astonishing partiality to the S.E. 
candidates. Now it is well known to all impartial members of 
the other districts that, whatever social virtues the S.E. may 
possess, they are not much good at road-riding. The in- 
ference was obvious ; our prophet had been " got at ; " 
" nobbled ; " " hocussed," or whatever other sporting term 
is most correct — probably by the S. E. D. C. So we deter- 
mined to do our sporting prophecy ourselvea 

First, of course, there are the two enamellists. We have 
had entries from heroes of this class before, but this year 
the entries are believed to be in earnest ; and as it is not 
likely that they are made merely with a view to two blue 
and gold medals on the watchchain instead of one, we may 
expect to see record beaten. Both brothers are understood 
to be going very well, the Medallist of 1881 especially so, 
and thus we have at once two candidates for our discrimi- 
nating judgment to select from. But there is also G. F. Beck, 
a very worthy antagonist, and Hiudley, who as last year*3 

dark horse " caused much trepidation to intending medal- 
lists; while Hewitt and the North-East contingent are 
both dangerous. 

But this is very much in the style of our discarded 
prophet, and we are nothing if not precise and accurate in 
our selection. So, here goes— -But before we finally 
name the medallists in order, let us remark on the names 



we do not see in the list of entries. Where are Charles 
Newman and Barker, dead-heaters, who were relied upon 
as enamellists of future years ? Where is Douglas Smith, 
reported to be in such magnificent condition ? Why are 
there no Cambridge entries? Where is our President? 
We pause for a reply, and trust that during the pause the 
consciences of the ctdprits have been very uneasy. 

To our task. As to the order of the medallists, after 
careful consideration and mature deliberation, we have 
very little hesitation in confidently predicting that the 
ten medals will be won by the ten men whose names we are 
about to giv6. And first, there can be little doubt that the 
Londoners, eagerly watching the long piece of dusty road 
that leads up to the ninth milestone, will hail as the winner 
of the enamelled medal the well-known machine and 

familiar form of 

(To be eondudsd in our next.) 

COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 7th 
inst., the following gentleman was elected a member of the 
Club :— 

Name and Addrew. Proposer. Seconder. 

DouglM McRaa, Homefield, Mit- 
diam Common Andrew Potter. J. F. Potter. 

Owing to a severe fall, which incapacitated him from 
riding, Mr. H. Ravenshaw was allowed to withdraw his 
name from the Club without being called upon to pay 
entrance fee or subscription. 

A letter was read from Palmer Dalton, resigning the 
post of N.W. District Captain owing to a severe attack of 
illness. The Committee expressed their regret, and re- 
quested K S. Price to take the post pro tern., and to take 
the necessary steps for calling a meeting of the district to 
elect a successor. 

The report of the Tricycle Sub-Committee was discussed 
at considerable length, and its clauses agreed to. Its 
adoption, further discussion, and fixing the date of the 
Special General Meeting were adjourned to next Committee 
Meeting. E. S. P&ioe. 

N.W. DISTRICT— SPECIAL. 

As will be seen from the Report of the Committee, Mr. 
Palmer Dalton has been compelled to resign the post of 
D.C., which I am sure we all deeply regret I have been 
requested to fill the post pro. tern,, and appeal to members 
to keep up the honour of the district during the interregnum. 
The Dunstable meet is at hand, and every member diould 
make a point of riding with his district on that day. 

Notice of meeting to elect a new D.C. will be sent round 
shortly. K S. Prioe. 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
J. F. Marchant, ''Castle Hotel," East Molesey. 
William Silk, Jun*; 17, Church Row, Hampstead, N.W. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



83 



EDITORIAL NOTICE. 
I shall be away from London at Whitsuntide, and the 
Gazette will be "in commission" during my absence. 
Members will help " the staff" very materially if they will 
send in all communications respecting the Road Trial to 
the Captain as early as passible in order that the Gazette 
may reach members by the Saturday morning. This is 
specially important, as the Dunstable meet is on that 
Saturday. T. E. Sobtjtton, Editor. 



THE ROAD TRIAL. 
To Competitobs. A special van for bicycles has been 
obtained in the 2.30 p.m. train from Paddington to Bath 
on Sunday, 13th, and I hope to meet all the competitors 
at the " White Lion " on Sunday evening, to draw 
for places and to receive final instructions. I shall be 
happy to convey a moderate amount of luggage from Bath 
to the hotel selected for tea on Monday evening (" The 
Milford Arms/' Hounslow). AH luggage must be securely 
labelled at Bath. Members are reminded that a complete 
road-riding costume must be worn in the Trial, and the 
L.B.C. uniform is preferred by the Committee. Further, I 
would point out the undesirability of members inviting 
riders outside the Club to ride up from Bath in the Trial 
with the competitors. The programme for Whit-Monday 
will be as follows :— 

5.80 a.m. 

6.0 „ 

7.0 „ 

7.80 „ 

^.0 p.in. 

The finish will be at the ninth milestone from London, 
Hounslow. The course is as follows : — 



To call 
Breakfart. 
Leave Hotel 

Start by Oleyeland Bridge. 
Tea at "Milford Anns.*' 



Bath to Devizes 


... 21 miles. 


Devizee to Beckhampton Comer ... 


... 7 „ 


Beckhampton Comer to Marlboro' 


... e „ 


Marlboro* to Hungerford 


104., 


HuDgerf ord to Newbury 


... 8* n 


Newbury to Reading 


... le M 


Beading to Maidenhead 


... H „ 


Maidenhead to Houndow 


... 17 




100 milee. 



Care must be exercised at these four situations between 
Bath and Melksham : — 

miles from Bath the road forks. Take the left 
hasd one (the right goes under a bridge). 

B. — 5 miles from Bath (in the village of Box) the road 
forks. Take the left hand one by the " Bear Inn." 

C. — 8^ miles from Bath, at Corsham, the road forks. 
Take the right hand one (the left goes to Chippenham). 

D. ^8| miles from Bath, at Corsham, keep straight on at 
cro8B roads (the right hand one goes to railway station), 
and 100 yards beyond the cross roads, on reaching some 
curious old almshouses, take the right hand road to Melk- 
ham (5 miles) ; the road straight on leads to Lacock. 



At six p.m. tea will be provided at the " Milford Arms " 
for 2s. 6d. each. Warm baths also will be obtainable at a 
charge of sixpence. 

To TmEBS. I shall be much obliged to any gentlemen 
who will volunteer to time the competitors, and to learn 
at which place they will undertake to be present — ^Devizes, 
Hungerford, Beading, Slough, are as yet unoccupied. 
(Alfred Herbert will be at Marlboro' Hill, W. A. Smith at 
Newbury, and A. Henry at Maidenhead.) Timers are re- 
quested to be at their stations, with any refreshments they 
may be good enough to provide, at least half an hour 
before the arrival of the first man, and are also requested 
to. forward to me through the post their records and remarks 
by five p.m. on Tuesday, May 15th. 

AsHLET W. Babkett, Captain. 



BATH TRIAL. 
The following names have been received for the Bath 
Trial on Whit-Monday : — 



W. K. Adam. 
J. W. Alison. 
♦G. F. Beck. 
T. D. Belfield. 
H. G. A. Brown. 

A. C. Forster. 
R. G. Francis. 

B. H. M. Fnmcis. 
B. M. Gruggen. 
A. Hawley. 
H. M. Hewitt. 
W. T. Hill. 
E. H. Hindley. 

*R. B. Hough. 
S. G. Hough. 

The asterisk denotes a former medallist. 



A. Lloyd. 
W. Meyer. 
A. S. Morris. 
F. W. Morria 
H. C. Pigott. 
*L. B. Reynolds. 
*H. R. Reynolds. 
H. L. Ryan. 
K D. SewelL 
Harold Smith. 
♦0. Thorn. 
*E, A. Weeks. 
*C. Wigan. 
W. Wyndham. 



ROAD TRIAL— IMPORTANT. 
Timers wanted for Hungerford, Reading, and Slough. 
Any man willing to help should let me know before Satur- 
day, May 12th at 11.30 a. m., in order that I may commu- 
nicate with him by telegraph before leaving town. Reports 
should be sent in to me by Tuesday 15th at 5 p.m. at latest. 

AsHLST W. Barrett, Captain. 

DUNSTABLE GENERAL MEET 

With the C.U.Bi.C. and O.U.Bi.C. on May 19th. 

All Districts will rendezvous at 5.45 p.m. St. Albans by 
the "FeaHen." 

The N.E. meet at 3 p.m. sharp at top of Lea Bridge 
Road, and ride vid Wood Green to Tally Ho ! Comer, 
where they meet the N.W. 

The N.W. meet at 3.30 p.m. sharp at "Jack Straw's 
Castle" and join the N.E. at Tally Ho ! and ride with 
them to St. Albans. 



Uoogle" 



Digitized by 











84 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 






The S.E. will meet at East Croydon Station at 3.50 
sharp, and train from there by the 4.0 p.m. to St. Albans, 
via Willesden. 

The S. W. meet at the " Coach and Horses," Kew Bridge, 
at 3.0 p.m. sharp, and ride straight to St. Albans alone. 

The W. meet at 3.0 p.m. sharp, at Savernake Cottage 
(the usual rendezvous), and ride straight to St. Albans. 

The Club then rides to Duustable, where tea will be pro- 
vided at 2s. 6d. each, in the I'own Hall, for the three 
Clubs, at 7.0 p.m., by the landlord of the "Old Sugar 
Loaf}" at which place opportunities for washing will be 
provided for all those who like to avail themselves thereof. 
As the University Clubs have to leave about 8.15 p.m., it 
is important that every District should do its best to adhere 
to the official times; moreover, no District should wait 
more than ten minutes for another. As is usual in these 
cases, only one attendance can be scored at this Meet, 
which will be gained by any member riding to Dunstable. 

As some propose starting early, it is suggested that they 
should wait for the main body at St. Albans; and it is 
hoped that from this town to Dunstable (13 miles) our men 
will do their best to keep between the two " leaders" and 
the two " rear-men," so that the Club may enter the town 
in a compact body. 

Beds will be obtained in Dunstable by the landlord of 
the " Sugar Loaf" for any member who will communicate 
with me u6t later than Thursday, 17th. 

I hope every L.B.C. man will regard attendance at this 
Meet as not only a pleasure, but also as a duty that he 
owes to his Club. Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 

ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
Our Annual Bace Meeting is to take place at the Crystal 
Palace on Saturday, 16th June, which is a half-crown day. 
Tickets will be obtainable from members of the Committee 
at the reduced price of Is. 6d., which will admit to the 
Palace and Grounds for the whole of the day. The railway, 
companies make no reduction on half-crown days, so that any- 
body getting their tickets for the Palace for that Saturday 
through us will save a shilling on each ticket. Members 
are particularly requested to make this known to their 
friends as much as possible. It has been decided to send 
one free ticket to eat;h member. This, together with 
handbill and entry form will be sent round with the next 
Gazette. As the Club has to account to the Palace for 
every ticket, members not using their ticket are requested 
to return it to me as soon as possible. The events are : — 

One Mile Members' Handicap. 

Two Miles Open Handicap. 

Two Miles Members Scratch for Ladies Challenge. 

Five Miles Open Scratch. 

Ten Miles Members' District Challenge. 
Entrance fee for the first four events 2s. 6d. each. No 
entrance fee for District Challenge. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 


SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
May 5th. At last the D.C. was punctual and was 
rewarded by the company of five members and one visitor 
(on a tricycle) at Syborn's Corner. One or two others 
were coming but did not come to hand. The Higham Hill 
route was taken to Chingford, and the hill by the Church 
tempted Rucker and Weeks to prove they could ride up it, 
which they did, the remainder either could'nt or would'nt, or 
both. Up to this point we had been hampered by divers 
bicyclists, who had been inclined to mix themselves into our 
ranks, but they all seemed satisfied by Chingford. The 
stones on the Waltham road were very loose and though 
rideable in daylight were not rationally compassable without 
that feature. From Waltham Cross to Hoddesdon the high 
road was in really good order in spite of a certain amount 
of liead wind, and the latter point was reached about 6.0. 
W. Meyer and Baldwin had preceded the main body in 
reaching the "Salisbury Arms," and greeted us on our 
entrance to the town. Tea ordered, some active spirits 
suggested a run to Rye House while we were waiting, and 
five or six of the party went about a mile's run, picking up 
Arthur Lloyd by the way, who had been skirmishing. At 
the Rye House Rucker insisted on standing the company a 
few of the curiosities of the institution, and a dungeon with 
somebody's boots and a bed were carefully inspected. It is 
opined the proprietor would make a good thing of it in 
the season, yet at least one member who had not been 
there before expressed a certain indifference to ever going 
there again. Tea was very comfortably and cheaply sup- 
plied at the " Salisbury Arms," Lyne and Large making 
the party up to a dozen, and the peaceful pipe all too soon 
brought us to the time for returning. The same route was 
taken, and one or two lamps were perverse, Baldwin expe- 
riencing a series of falls in consequence, but very pluckily 
coming on in spite of his misfortunes to Chingford, where 
he took the train. The District kept all together, except 
Baldwin, into Walthamstow, Weeks surmounting the hill 
into Chingford, whieh was in capital order. Owing to some 
trifling delay on the way home, it was nearly eleven before 
the company parted. Present: H. Baldwin, T. Child, 
Kelsey, Large, Lloyd, Long, Lyne, W. S. Meyer (S.E.), 
Rucker, Weeks, P. T. Letchford (visitor), and 

Theo. GoDlee, District Captain. 
, It is well known that the attendances at N.E. Meets 
increase with the distance to be run. I hope therefore, that 
the whole district will come to Dunstable on the 19th. 

Thbo. Godlee, District Captain* 

W. District. 

May 5th. At the appointed time Leeds arrived at 
the starting place, but after waiting until 4 p.m., and no 
one else making an appearance, we made a start for Eew. 
Instead of taking the usual road to Richmond, we followed 


1 




' Digitized by V^OOQIC 





LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 85 



the one leading at the back of the houses in the Eew Road, 
thus avoiding the tram lines. Kiclimond Hill was in its 
usually wet and sticky state through tbe vigorous endeavours 
of the water carts to lay the dust. From Richmond we 
followed the road to Petersham and over Ham Common to 
Kingston. Here we met 0. Thorn, who had come by a 
different route. A little farther on G. Braby was sighted. 
Arriving at the " Swan " at Ditton, at about 5.15, we there 
found a goodly gathering of S. W. men. From the time we 
arrived until six o'clock tea, a continuous stream of S.E. 
men CBJsfe up one after another, as if each man had ridden 
from a different point of the compass. A fairly good tea 
was provided at the " Ship," and a fairly good price charged 
(2s. 9d.) — thirty-eight sitting down. Afterwards the men 
soon divided and went upon their various journeys ; some 
to Newbury, Godalming, Weybridge, etc., so that the return 
journey was only carried out by a few. Present : C. Braby, 
Jephson, Koch, Leeds, Naylor, Marchant, E. Scott, 
0. Thorn, F. M. Wimams,Hindley (N.W.), Newman (N.W.), 
R. Charsley (visitor), and 

H. C. PiaoTT, District Captain. 
I trust that our members will afford a convincing proof 
of their recent revival by attending the Inter- Varsity Meet at 
Dunstable next Saturday in their thousands." 

Haeold C. Pigott, District Captain. 



N.W. District. 
May 5th. This run at first seemed likely to be a failure, 
as two out of the six men who left Tally Ho ! turned back, 
and as the D.C.'s late experiments with his gigantic 
" Catapult," (so called from its power of propelling heavy 
bodies to a distance), unfortunately prevented him turning 
up, we were left without a leader. The result was that the 
ride became a series of short spurts, chiefly up hill, until 
Barnet was passed, when the Northern Guide led us through 
retired lanes which he seemed to regard with the pride of 
an owner who had spent both time and money in getting 
them into the perfect condition they were in, no path could 
have been better— result : racing. We soon got to Colney 
Heath and ordered tea for four ; just then five more men 
arrived, and we sat down to one of those pleasant feeds 
where the monotony of eggs and jam are relieved by a 
constant flow of nonsense and anecdote. One member, re- 
ferring to the comment in last week's Gazette, spun a yarn 
of the dark ages of the Club's history which is not generally 
known. 

When the grey uniform had been decided on in com- 
mittee, the question of the colour of the stockings was left 
to a sub-committee with instructions to get samples, pre- 
ferably of some quiet tint, in keeping with the taste of the 
members of the " Young Club." At the next meeting Jolly 
reported, with pride and satisfaction beaming in his face, 
that they had made a most happy selection, having 
been luc^ enough to get a pattern embodying the Club \ 



colours, and produced a pair of football stockings, striped 
blue, black, and red! The committee were speechless 
with dismay, and the captain had coughed once or twice 
preparatory to explaining, as gently as possible, that, to put 
it mildly, the choice was not quite what they expected, 
when the culprit, amidst roars of laughter from the other 
conspirators brought out another pair of the kind now 
used, and confessed that they had got the first pair on 
purpose to hear what we should say. After tea we started 
for home. But alas ! there were Bath Racers amongst us, 
and the pace varied in consequence. Up Eidge Hill it was 
decidedly hot, for which the blame attaches to Morris in 
the first instance. Lamps were then lighted, and it was 
agreed nem. dis. that we should finish the ride quietly. It 
has always been believed that the most conceited creature 
on this earth is an amateur tenor, but this was before the 
Otto Bicycle was invented, and any one who had seen two 
men on these machines riding past a lot of cyclists uphill in 
front of us would have said the A. T. was not in it. The 
discordant grunts of the foghorns they carried so exasperated 
one or two us that it became necessary to pass them sharply. 
Result : racing again, and also the premature dispersion of 
our members ; it is believed, however, that every one got 
home safely after as jolly a ride as it is possible to conceive. 
Present : Alison, Elgood, Hill, A. S. Morris, D. Langmore, 
Jackson, Stunt, W. J. Williams, TuUock, Howard, and 

T. G. Nevill. 



S.W. DiSTBICT. 



C. Newman and J. Scott were at Kingston Station at 
4.30 p.m. on Saturday last, where Ryan joined us shortly 
after this hour. With no distance before us, slow riding 
became the order of the afternoon, and we accordingly 
wended our way at a ateady pace through Surbiton and 
Long Ditton to our destination at " The Swan." Here we 
found Marchant had already arrived, and following his 
excellent example came Sewell and Bamett, who had 
effected a landing with comparative difficulty frt)m the 
Great Waterway hard by. Soon after our arrival, A. H. 
Eoch paid us a passing visit on his way to Godalming ; 
all our combined eloquence failed to persuade him to stay 
to tea. Coleman, who had taken more extensively to the 
road than ourselves, was the next visitor ; and to complete 
our numbers the Brothers Buckler arrived on the Sociable." 
At the animated tea meeting we had a goodly sprinkling of 
competitors for the coming Bath Trial, and as is usual on 
such occasions, most of the new medallists were picked out 
of the official list and arranged in the order of their coming ! 

Thirty-six members and two visitors took more or less 
active parts at this tea, which seemed to pass off in a most 
pleasing and generally satisfactory manner. There was a 
somewhat ominous thirst noticeable in one or two instances 
among Whit Monday x^ompetitors, which we must hope will 
be greatly modified by this last week's strict and careful 



D i y i i i i e U Uy 



Google 



86 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



training ! The S. W. D. dispersed at intervals daring the 
eyeniog. 

Members present : Pern Coleman, J. F. Marchant, A. E. 
Buckler, H. Bamett, H. L. Ryan, and 

R. M. Gbuggen, District Captain. 

I hope that several of our members will make arrange- 
ments to run with me to Dunstable on the 19th inst., and 
to return the following day. 



S.E. District. 
Eight men left the trysting place on Saturday at 4.30 
for Thames Ditton. Coleman found us on the way, and a 
steady pace was kept up to Ewell, where Wyndham and 
Smither were waiting. Two or three men turned back 
here, and the others after a short rest started along the 
Kingston road. With a favouring breeze the Bath maniacs 
were not to be restrained, and scudded along at a rare pace 
until, after a warm twenty m\nutes without a check, they 
came in sight of the " Swan." The slower division, com- 
prised of men who were not to be tempted out of their 
usual pace by the impetuosity of their fellows, arrived at 
the river bank shortly afterwards. To them are the apo- 
logies of the D.C. due for the somewhat disorderly way in 
which the run was conducted. After next Monday our 
flyers will relapse into a comparatively torpid state, aud a 
quieter order of things will prevail. Stephen Smith was 
the sole representative of the Blackheath Division ; the 
rest, it is said, were harbouring their energies for a grand 
coup at Dunstable. The O'Reilly came up to the Meet 
from Brighton, and altogether nineteen South-Easters and 
two visitors sat down to tea with the West and South- West ; 



a respectable muster^ it is true, but considering the day 
and the distance, hardly up to some of our happiest efforts. 
Present: F. L. Adam, Barker, C. A. Brown, H. G. A. 
Brown, R. H. M. Francis, Alfred Herbert, 8. Herbert, The 
O'Reilly. J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, PauU, C. T. Schmet- 
tau, S. P. Smith, S. E. Whealler, F. H. Williams, W. 
Wyndham, J. B. Toung, aud two visitors (McCrae and 
A. L. Potter). R. 0. Faancis, District Captain. 



DUNSTABLE MEET. 
Stephen Smith will be riding to Dunstable on the 
19th inst., the day of the Oxford and Cambridge Meet, and 
has kindly invited any men who can take the day, to 
breakfast at his house at 9.30, and ride with him via 
Woolwich. 

Another party will leave Croydon Central Station at 
10.0 a.m., aud proceed via Kingston. 

The main body will meet at East Croydon Railway 
Station at 3.50 punctually, and book through to St. Albans 
by the 4.0 train which calls at Norwood Junction at 4.5., 
and arrives at St. Albans at 5.40. For those who prefer to 
go through town there are trains from Broad Street at 2.40 
and 3.28, arriving at High Bamet (on the Dunstable Road) 
at 3.15 and 4.14 respectively. There are also trains back 
to London from St. Albans at 9.5 and 10.0 p.m. 

In order that I may make the necessary arrangements, I 
shall be glad to hear from any men who propose going, as to 
the route they mean to adopt, and I hope on this occasion 
the South-East will show that to them distance and incon- 
venience are mere trifles compared with the honour of 
supporting their club. R. 0. Francis. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Dftte. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


aK 

Blackheath Division. 


May 12.— No Offi<nal Bun. 


Mfty 19.— DuNSTABLi. General Meet with the 0.n.Bi.G. and C.T7.B10. 


May 26. 


I^Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80 
' and Sybom's Corner 
i 8.45, for Ebith. 
' Meet S J:. 


"Jaek Straw's Caa. 
tie," 8.45, for Iver. 
Meet S.W. and W.. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mm HiU Boad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
IvEB. ("Swan.") 
Meet N.W. and 
S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Itbr. 
Meet N.W. and 
W. 


4.0, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Ebith. MeetN.E. 


'Hare&Bmet,*4.80, 
for Ekith. Meet 
N.E. 



LAWN TENNIS. 

With the Captain's consent a tournament wiU again take 
place this year, and it is hoped that members will support 
it as much as possible. 

Several shillings are still owing from last season, consequent 
no entry will be accepted without it is accompanied by this 
trifle. 

By paying attention to the following remarks, competitors 
will greatly facilitate the efforts of the managers. 



a. The entries will close on Thursday 17th inst. 

b. The result of drawing will be published in the 
Gazette, and competitors mustmake their ownarrangements 
as to time and place of their matches, and each winner 
should return the result of his tie tvithout delay. 

c. About ten days will be allowed for each tie, and no 
excuse can be accepted for the non-playing of the sama 

All communications are to be addressed to H. N. Sharp, 
Elms Lea, Sutton, Surrey. 



Digitized by Vj^O^LC 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 87 



TRIALS OP THE TRIAL. 

A trial, indeed. A man never has any rest until he goes 
in for it ; and when he does, he is no happier. He fully 
persuades himself he could have done better had not some- 
thing happened that did happen, so if he does not win a 
medal he starts again to do so. On getting one he tries for 
the enamel, and even on securing that trophy he is not 
satisfied, and again starts (presumably to beat record). 

The intending competitor is made a butt for all kinds of 
advice as to when, where, and how to proceed. Then he is 
continually being told of tremendously hot men who are in 
training, but somehow never start. It is most amusing to 
hear the difference of opinion as to the quality of the 
entries. Possessor of a medal says he does not think much 
of them. Intending medallist does. Meanwhile the older 
members congratulate themselves on the " standard " being 
kept up. 

The complete list of entries now out shows how utterly 
useless it is to question members as to their intention on 
Whit-Monday. A good half declared in the early part of 
the year they would not start. Others avoid the question 
in different ways. One goes down to ride up with a friend, 
and will not try for a medal ; another to look over the 
course, so that he can start next year ; intending Enamel- 
lists only go down for the fun of Uie thing, and no one not 
already placed means to try for anything but the last 
medal. It would be very interesting iL we could get at 
what the men really do think of their chance, and how 
they feel on the Sunday and Monday. Anything but 
happy, if experience goes for much. On Sunday a few 
start from Paddington by the 2.30 train. The victims get 
in all the way down, and victims they certainly look. All 
try to seem light and careless in the attempt to keep up 
their spirits, but it is no use ; and soon all is gloom, varied 
only by glimpses of the road when the train passes any part 
of the course. Next the Oxford contingent get in, inspiring 
considerable awe by their apparent fitness. Timers, etc., 
meet the train at various stations, [and [rehearse giving 
refreshments so that they shall be perfect on the morrow. 
At last Bath is reached, and the men ahready there meet 
the train, looking at the new arrivals with a considerable 
amount of jealousy. It is surprising how very fit everyone 
thinks everybody else looks. Then there is a rush made by 
the men who have not already ordered bedrooms — dinner — 
drawing of places, and sweepstake— paying biUs and bed, 
some very early, others retiring with their own particular 
friend and comforting one another. Morning at last — will 
it be fine ? — ^which way is the wind ? — breakfast — ^packing up 
(how much will the Captain stand ?) provisions for journey — 
getting nervous — not at all improved by the fearful and 
hideous appliances some of the men have for supplying 
themselves with liquids — ^tremendous crowd at the bridge — 
more nervousnesft— fall in line — got a drain in front to 
mount over — sure to come a cropper in it — order to start — 



no more nervousness — why don't they go faster? — everyone 
frightened of Box Hill — one or two go wrong and have to 
dismount — all still holding back for dangerous comer — 
man who has warned us most goes down about twenty miles 
an hour — glad I did not — been told to keep on eating all 
the way up — try a biscuit — very dry — wish I had brought 
something to drink — ^Devizes — which is the way? — applause 
of yokels — Marlboro' Hill — been told, best, plan is to run 
up — try, but don't succeed — Savemake Forest — flock of 
sheep — fly in my eye — wish I had never started — ^if I can 
only get a medal, will never start again^ — Newbury — 
McGullum Hill all there — first man appears to have been 
a sort of comet — told it is not possible to catch him — 
disheartened — try to eat something — can't — try to drink, 
and succeed beyond landlord's fondest hope — start — 
Reading — strong contingent of L.B.C. men with milk — 
take everything that is offered — Maidenhead — ^look at 
Gazette — how many miles now — ^getting monotonous — 
wish they would not make parish boundaries so like mile- 
stones — get to Hounslow — milestones having a lark with 
me — still one mile — ninth milestone — ^Bath medallist, 
hurrah ! — go out of training at once. N. H. 

RACING FIXTURES. 
May 12. — ^Lincoln C. and F.C. Sports. 

14. — Scottish Games and Bicycle Races at Stam- 
ford Bridge. 
26.— C.U.Bi.C. University Trials, Cambridge. 
26.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotie and Pliny deUver it that the poipentine casteth off his qniUB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioscorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."^ir T. Bbownx. 

Cambridge men are revelling in improved accommodation 

on the path. 

• ••*•« 

Their new double has turned up radiant in the club 
colours. It was driven over seventy-five miles with the 
club run the other day. Ill natured people say because it 
couldn't go by train. 

« • « * * e 

The C.U.BIC. last year elected its 1000th new member. 

• ••••• 

The Cyclist and the Athletic News have been commenting 

very favourably on G. N. Latham's dodge for worn saddles. 

• ♦ • # 

To invert the old proverb, "There are none so keen- 
sighted as those who will see/' Goy's list " of articles con- 
nected with Athletic Sports of all kinds," which can be had 
on the new plan, includes washing and sewing machines, 
Bath chairs and invalid furniture, perambulators and ladies' 
watches. 

«•«««« 

The Cambridge captain has a wager of a big dinner in 
the Christmas term that he gets an average attendance of 
eight to the club runs. Taken and offered. There were 
double that to the last 



Digitized by VjlJO^lC 



88 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



On the 28th April, at St. James', Kidbrook, by the Hon. and Rev. 
John Harbord, Herbert George, youngett son of the hite Edward Mid- 
dleton, of Lee Boad, Blackheath, to Eleanor Charlotte, only child of 
the late Thomas Blakeley, of Ganterbnry. 

• ••••• 

On the 30th April, at the Pro-Cathedral, Kensington, W., by the 
BeV. Fr. Bede, O.S.F., Arthur Lloyd, son of the Bey. F. J. Grug- 
gen, M.A., to Harriet Monica (Monica), daughter of the late Major 
Chrisholm, 80th Madras Native Infantry, 

• •«•«• 

How many men, hayiDg been asked by a competitor to 
pick out the winners of the ten medals have not included 
the questioner ? From notes taken at Ditton, I should say, 
none. 

#•••#• 

If Saturday was a sample of the energy usually displayed 

by ex-officers of the S.£. District, there need be no surprise 

at their large average attendances. Quite careless of the fact 

they were helping to cut their own records, the D. C.'s of 

1881 and 1882 attempted to appropriate every new arrival 

to the S.E. score. 

«•«•«« 

They had, however, a rival in their captain of 1880, who 
was pursuing the same tactics on behalf of the West — ^the 
district in which he now resides. 

Gonundmm. — A N. W. member attends by water a joint 
meet of W., S. W., S.E. Which D.C. should by rights score 
him. 

*««•#« 

Dunstable will be tnfite during the meet of the three Clubs 
on May 19th. The Town Hall, unlimited bunting, and the 
local band to play "the conquering hero, etc," as we enter 

the town, are among the good things promised. 

• «•••* 

As the Varsity Clubs have so short a time to stay after 

our arrival, it behoves our men to lose no time between St. 

Albans and the " Old Sugar Lclf," nor to prolong their 

toilettes unduly at the latter. 

« ♦ ♦ ♦ « * 

Our President has been appointed one of the Examiners 

for the Tyrrwhitt Hebrew Scholarship. 

«*•••* 

A member of the S.W. District was oiling his machine 

at Hampton Court one day last week, when one of the 

numerous photographers in the nbighbourhood came up to 

him and said, " Take your photograph, sir," " What ! on a 

Sunday," said the L.B.C. man, ",What do you take me for ! " 

" A shilling, sir," said the man.t-iari^ Bicyclist. 

• •«««« 

S. 6. Hough is looked upon as a dark horse in the N.E., 

and it is rumoured he will take a good place. 

«•••*• 

Lloyd is reckoned safe for a medal, barring accidents. 

• •«*«• 

What Harold Smith can do on the road is a problem of 
some difficulty in his own district, as he ^as never attended 
a Club run, but his achievements in the 10 miles at Stam. 
ford Bridge points to very good nme, at any rate, if the 
weather is good. 



A new feature in the Bath road is fifty yards of loose and 
unrideable gravel, which forms part of a level crossing 
just on the London s'de of Colnbrook. Competitors beware ! 

F. L. Adam's form on a Coventry Rotary Tricycle on 

Saturday was such as to make some of the two wheelers 

look to their merits. 

«*«««« 

I hear that one of the favourites for the Bath Stakes has 

been practising fast pedalling on a facile. He says that it 

is better even than a kme trainer. 

• ««««« 

On dit that the captain is anxiously looking to the Sutton 

and West Kent Race Meetings in this month to help him 

in his anxious task of picking the London teams for our 

contests with the Universities in June. 

Next in importance to authentic times for the start and 
finish of the Trial come accurate records from the timers on 
the road. It would be a good thing if we could get these from 
each ten miles of the course, but, failing that, they should 
come from at least six stations. Unfortunately, timing 
though very needful, is very arduous, and if a man is not a 
competitor, he needs must be a coach. I fear this year 
we shall miss the white mackintosh of the ubiquitous 
Chippindale. 

In a general way the American humourist was right when 

he advised not " to prophecy till you know ; " still, as my 

anonymous predecessor last year spotted the first man, I 

am encouraged to do what I can in this direction. Though 

the chapter of accidents in tlie Trial is so varied, the 

enamelled medal muht, I think, be given to H. R Reynolds 

who, with roads and weather in their present state, should 

reach the mile stone " not very much after three p.m. 

Beck will press him hard, but if the S.W. wind brings up 

much wet, will drop off before Reading. Such weather, 

however, would suit the old stayers. Brown, R, G. Francis, 

and Walter Meyer down to the ground. The team, all 

round, is a good one, but, ^lerh^s, is hardly so warm as 

some that have left Bath in past years. 

«««•*« 

It contains, I fear, one or two men whose training can 
hardly justify them in hoping to reach Hounslow the same 
day ; at least, if they manage so to do, none among the 
visitors to the Mile-stone will be more agreeably surprised 
than yours, Pobcupinb. 

Wanted. — Can any member suggest a suitable place for 
a small reading party in the summer ? The requirements 
are mountain scenery combined, if possible, with sea air, 
and not altogether iumassable roads, and plain accommoda- 
tion for five or six. Wales or North Devon preferred. Any 
hints will oblige, J. S. Whatton. 

NOTICK TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU oontributioiiB must be addresBed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcbeap, E.C,," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuef^day eveni*;^-. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.G.— May 10, 1883. 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 11.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU riffhts reserved.] 



May 17, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

The Committeo 89 

Dunstable Greneral Meet 90 

Notice— S.E. District — Important 90 

Annual Race Meeting 90 

Road Trial 90 

Notice to Competiton ] [ . 98 

Notes by the Ninth Milestone 93 



PAGl 

Correspondence 93 

All Round the Wheel 94 

Racing Fixtures 94 

Club Meete 95 

Quills 95 

Dunstable Meet— N.E. District 96 

Notices 96 



notice. 

The latest hofir for reception of copy for " Gazette " 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdaye. 



THE COMMITTEE. 

The sheltering protection of the Editorial " we " is our 
only excuse for venturing to discuss what may be called 
the motive power of the Club and our own masters. The 
diflSculty is further complicated by the fact that we are 
ourselves integral portions of the august assembly. With 
which apologies let us review ourselves collectively. 

The duties of the Committee are so very varied that we 
have no intention of going in for a catalogue, while the 
secrets of the Committee are so very profound that we have 
no intention of disclosing them, but we doubt whether 
many members are aware of the powers which they intrust 
to the Committee, or the amount of managing they them- 
selves require. The Committee are proud to believe that they 
each represent the whole Club, and not any one section of 
it, and the identity of the separate Districts is rapidly sunk 
in the general Club interests when they are gathered round 
the Council table, save on those special occasions when any 
information as to the views of a District on a subject speci- 
fically affecting it, is required. It is at Committee meetings, 
too, that the Captain has some of his most responsible and 
some of his pleasantest duties, perhaps, to perform. 
To control a party of fifteen to twenty men who have many 
common interests quite apart from the agenda paper, to 



induce them to apply themselves to the business in hand, 
and not to apply themselves to other business, is no light 
task, and one which may well tax the administrative ability 
of our leader. It may be a merely inattentive or supremely 
indififerent member ; alas, we have heard of such. It may 
be something very nearly approaching a " regular opposi- 
tion," who may be expected to have very defined opinions 
on every subject, and may be prepared to use every lawful 
means to attain their ends, and thirdly, there is the free 
lance quite incomprehensible, whilst through it all the 
Chairman must remember that all those round him may 
be safely assumed to have, in their own fashion, only one 
object, and that one object the good of the Club, which by 
one method or another they are trying with more or less 
energy to serve. 

And what do they do ? The question is often put and is 
sometimes hard to answer. Truly the dry reports in our 
columns would hardly justify a hardworking existence, and 
we have heard too of " autocratic " officers. Truly also it 
is easy to ridicule the ever recurring topic of dress which at times 
appear week after week on the notice paper ; but perhaps 
we may be allowed to point to results, and, while allowing 
all honour that is due to the officers on whom so much 
necessarily devolves, to claim that the work of the club is on 
the whole well done by those to whom it is deputed. The 
machinery works so well, there is so little jar or rattle that 
the careless observer almost forgets that the absence of 
fi^ction enables all the more work to be done, and fancies 
at times that elections, race meetings, club discipline^ our- 



Googh 



Digitized by 







90 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 




selves, club runs, and the curious medley of extra neglects 
which seem to keep up an unintermittent stream, work " by 
themselves " and without any motive power whatever. 

There is work and hard work to be done, and it is done, 
and the responsibilities of a member of a Committee do not 
always cease when he leaves the Committee room, but other 
detail duties are delegated to individuals to be carried out 
and completed, or it may be digested for the use of a 
future Committee Meeting. 

In conclusion, let us in the first place disclaim any personal 
allusion to any individual member in our remarks above, 
and if \^e seem to speak somewhat highly of a body of 
which we are a component part, let our readers remember 
that we cease for this purpose to be individuals, and assume 
a certain abstract condition from which we view even our- 
selves with philosophic impartiality. 


S.E DISTRICT.— IMPORTANT. 

Members of the District are reminded that according to 
the notice in last week's Gazette a detachment will leave 
Croydon Central Station at 10.0 a.m. for Dunstable. For 
the convenience of members of this or other districts who 
may wish to start early, and join on the way, the following 
times will be kept : iNonsuch Park gates (Kingston side) 
10.45, Hampton Court Bridge 11.45, West Drayton 1.0 

Members to wht)m the Woolwich route is more convenient 
are asked to bear in mind Stephen Smith's kind invitation 
to breakfast at his house, 9, Morden Road, at half-past nine. 

Several men have already announced their intention of 
travelling by the 4 o'clock from East Croydon to St. Albans, 
where they will meet the other Districts at 5.45, and ride 
on with them to Dunstable. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 


DUNSTABLE GENERAL MEET 

With the C.U.Bi.C. and O.U.Bi.C. on Mat 19th. 

All Districts will rendezvous at 5.45 p.m. St. Albans by 
the "FeaHen." 

The N.E. meet at 3 p.m. sharp at top of Lea Bridge 
Road, and ride vid Wood Green to Tally Ho ! Comer, 
where they meet the N.W. 

The N.W. meet at 3.30 p.m. sharp at "Jack Straw's 
Castle " and join the N.E. at Tally Ho ! and ride with 
them to St. Albans. 

The S.E. will meet at East Croydon Station at 3.50» 
sharp, and train from there by the 4.0 p.m. to St. Albans, 
via Willesden. 

The S. W. meet at the " Coach and Horses," Kew Bridge, 
at 3.0 p.m. sharp, and ride straight to St. Albans alone. 

The W. meet at 3.0 p.m. sharp, at Savernake Cottage 
(the usual rendezvous), and ride straight to St. Albans. 

The Club then rides to Dunstable, where tea will be pro- 
vided at 28. 6d. each, in the Town Ball, for the three 
Clubs, at 7.0 p.m., by the landlord of the "Old Sugar 
Loaf," at which place opportunities for washing will be 
provided for all those who like to avail themselves thereof. 
As the University Clubs have to leave about 8.15 p.m., it 
is important that every District should do its best to adhere 
to the ofiicial times; moreover, no District should wait 
more than ten minutes for another. As is usual in these 
cases, only one attendance can be scored at this Meet, 
which will be gained by any member riding to Dunstable. 

As some propose starting early, it is suggested that they 
should wait for the main body at St. Albans ; and it is 
hoped that from this town to Dunstable (13 miles) our men 
will do their best to keep between the two "leaders" and 
the two " rear-men," so that the Club may enter the town 
in a compact body. 

. I hope every L.B.C. man will regard attendance at this 
Meet as not only a pleasure, but also as a duty that he 
owes to his Club. Ashley W. Babbett, Captain, 


ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
Our Annual Race Meeting is to take place at the Crystal 
Palace on Saturday, 16th June, which is a half-crown day. 
Tickets are obtainable from members of the Committee 
at the reduced price of Is. 6d., which will admit to the 
Palace and Grounds for the whole of the day. The railway 
companies make no reduction on half-crown days,so that any- 
body getting their tickets for the Palace for this Saturday 
through us will save a shilling on each one. Members 
are particularly requested to make this known to all their 
friends. One free ticket, together with handbill and entry 
form, are sent round with this Gazette. As the Club has 
to account to the Palace for every ticket, members not using 
their ticket are requested to return it to me as soon as 
possible. The events are 

One Mile Members' Handicap. 

Two Miles Open Handicap. 

Two Miles Members' Scratch for Ladies' Challenge. 

Five Miles Open Scratch. 

Ten Miles Members' District Challenge. 
Entrance fee for the first four events 2s. 6d. each. 
Three ex-Captains of the Club have kindly offered to 
present the prizes for the Club Mile. Members should show 
their appreciation by entering for this event in force. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

ROAD TRIAL. 
Again the success of the favourite has justified our 
predictions, and with roads in worse state than on Wiiit 
Monday in last year, we may regard his performance, 
although it was two minutes longer, as better than when lie 
won his enamelled medal twelve months ago. On the 
evening before the Trial the Captain on reaching the 
" White Lion " with Rucker and seven of the competitors, 
found the others with the The O'Reilly and Jephson awaiting 
them. After tea and the usual instnictions had been 







Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



91 



disposed of, a retirement was promptly made to prepare for 
early breakfasting. On Monday morning the hotel was left 
at 7 a.m., and a good start made at 7.30 a.m. punctually, 
with no mishaps. The O'Reilly and Rucker aiding very 
much in effecting it. 

The following shows the twenty-three starters, and their 
positions when the signal was given : 

Hawley. ^ Hewitt. 

0. Thoni. L. B. ReynoldB. 

Sewell Ryan. 

R. H. M. rrancis. Lloyd. 

R. M. Gruggen. Belfield. 

H. Smith. A. S. Morris. 

Hindley. H. R. Reynolds. 

Alison. W. K. Adam. 

Wyndliam. R. J. Hough. 

S. G. Hough. Wigan. 

Forster. Beck, 

Meyer. 

Of the non-starters Brown was prevented by illness, 
Pigott and R 6. Francis by the breaking down of their 
machines, and Weeks by a badly sprained wrist. 

The first times come from Marlboro' Hill, and are given 
by Alfred and Arthur Herbert, who report as below : — 

" Rain commenced falling at 7.30 a.m., and continued 
more or less till all the competitors had passed. They 
took up their usual station at the top of the hill at a quarter 
to ten, and at a few minutes after that hour a grey uniform 
appeared in sight coming swiftly towards the hill. As soon 
as the rider came within the range of practical eyesight he 
was observed to be carrjring a large black bottle, which was 
proof positive that he was not engaged in the struggle. It 
proved to be Jephson, who had trained from Bath, and had 
come to attend upon W. K. Adam. At a quarter past ten 
the first three men came into sight together, and L. B. 
Reynolds was the first to reach the top of the hill. Five 
yards behind came Harold Smith who was half-a-minute ahead 
of H. R. Reynolds, and in a few seconds Ryan came. An 
interval of two minutes took place, and then seven men 
arrived almost in a body, and the remainder followed very 
soon. The time between the passing of the first man and 
the last was 38mins. The men who were apparently most 
fresh were L. B. Reynolds, Hindley, and Wyndham, though 
many others appeared but little the worse for their 33 miles. 

Oliver Thorn was reported to have been upset in Marl- 
borough by a dog running into his wheel broadside, and all 
the starters were accounted for except A. S. Morris and 
C. Wigan, of whom no tidings could be obtained. The 
following is the order of arrival at the top of the hill : — 

L. B. Reynolds 10.19 

Harold Smiih 10.19 

H. R. ReynoldB 10.194 

H. L. Ryan 10.20 

G. F. Beck 10.22 

A. Lloyd 10.23i 

S. G. Hough 10.28i 

R.B. Hough 10.24 



E. D. SeweU ... 
W. K. Adam ... 
E. H. Hindley 
A. Hawley 
R. H. M. Francia 
H. M. Hewitt... 
W. Wyndham... 
W. Meyer 
A. C. Forater ... 
T. D. Belfield... 
J. W. Alison ... 
R. M. Gruggen 



10.24 

10.24 

10.24^ 

10.32 

10.32i 

10.34i 

10.35 

10.35i 

10.39 

10.42 

no.45 

10.57 



MoYris and Wigan were subsequently found comfortably 
seated in the train which passed through Newbury soon 
after two o'clock, having retired from the contest early. 
Oliver Thorn was with them, and seemed none the worse 
for his encounter with the dog, beyond a slight grazing of 
his knees." 

At Newbury, W. A. Smith was posted, and reports as 
follows : — 

" At the time at which the first man appeared last year, 
the narrow street in which the " Checquers " is situated 
was quite filled by a traction engine and four wagons, 
which however luckily went towards Dounington. Nearly 
half an hour later than the time at which Weeks put in an 
appearance in 1881, the brothers Reynolds came down the 
hill, H. R. slightly leading and rather bent over his 
handles, L. B. was sitting bolt upright, and both seemed 
very fre.sh ; H. R, who had arranged with me for a supply of 
food, etc., had them handed up to him as he rode by, but 
L. B. dismounted and lost a trifle over two minutes, and 
just before he mounted Harold Smith went by at a fast 
rate — these three thus early in the trial having gained at 
least one mile upon the other competitors. The next to 
appear was W. E. Adam, with Jephson in attendance. 
While he was eating a hearty lunch. Hough, Beck, and 
Ryan came in, and the latter, after a hasty lunch, went on 
again. Beck here gave up the contest on finding that the 
brothers Reynolds were twelve minutes ahead, while Hough 
took twelve minutes to lunch, during which time Lloyd^ 
Sewell, and Hifidley came in together; the former stayed 
to luiich, but the latter, after getting a fresh relay of pro- 
visions, rode away in fine condition, coached as far as 
Reading by Mr. Hollands, the crack local rider. Sewell 
then went away, followed by Waddy Wyndham, who rode 
through without stopping in capital form. Hawley was the 
next at 11.57, and immediately after his arrival Lloyd and 
S. Hough left together. Then R. H. M. Francis, Hewitt, 
and Meyer followed in rapid succession, and all stayed a 
few minutes. Belfield and Forster rode through without 
stopping, and then came Alison, who went on again after 
having had his hind wheel attended to. Gruggen came in 
rather tired at 12.57 ; Beck and Hough were very smart in 
oiling machines, etc." 

The times at Newbury, as taken by Sn>ith, are as 
follows : — 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 





Arr. 
hrs. min. B6C. 


Dept. 
hn.miB. leo. 




1 1 ftfC A 
... 11 OO U ... 






11 OO U 


11 Q 
... 11 Of O 


Smith, H. 


... 11 87 ... 




A J-__ TXT XT 

AdAm, W. XL 


il At OK 

... 11 41 OO ... 


t i KA 1 A 

... 11 50 10 


uou^n. E> 


11 A/t QA 


1 1 KO A 

... 11 OS 


"R van TT T. 

JDbjrUly a» JU 


11 A1K AK 


11 AiCk t>*T 
... 11 49 At 


i>ecJc, Vr. JT. ... 


11 la AK 

11 4o 45 ... 


... stopped. 


JLloya, A 


... 11 60 51 ... 


... 11 58 


tt;_ Ji„ TB" 


11 OU Do 


11 bJL 10 


sewell, Jfi. 1/ 


... 11 60 00 ... 


... 11 54 40 


Wynanam, W. 


... 11 56 ... 


— 


tlAwlej A. 


... 11 57 8 ... 


... 12 8 


TT/\na>l« H D 

jdOug^n, XV. ... 


1 1 eo A 
... 11 00 U ... 


... stopped. 


Francis, R. H. M.... 


... 11 59 60 ... 


... 12 6 10 


Hewitt, H. M. ... 


... 12 1 20 ... 


... 12 6 


Meyer, W 


... 12 2 17 .. 


... 12 7 


Belfield,T. D. ... 


... 12 7 ... 




Forster, A. C. 


... 12 10 80 ... 




Alison, J. 


... 12 20 ... 


... 12 26 


Graggen, B. M. ... 


... 12 57 ... 





The next report comes from A. Koch at Beading, as 
follows : — 

H. R Beynolda 



L. B. Reynolds... 
Smith 



Sewell ... 
Wyndham 
Hindley... 
Hotigh ... 
Uoyd ... 
Hewitt ... 
Byaa ... 
Belfield ... 
Francis ... 
Hawley ... 



12.48 
12.43 
12.47 
1.8 
1.18 
1.14 
1.16 
1.17 
1.19 
1.19 
1.20 
1.25 
1.29 
1.29 



From Maidenhead, A. Henry reports as below : — 



Name. Time; Deputare. Remarks. 

*H. B. Beynolds ... 1.40 ... — ... Went through, accompanied 

by M. D. Bucker. 
Went through. 
Spoke broken ; accompanied 
by E. S. Price. 
— ... Went through, accompanied 
by F. L. Adam and 
Jephson. 
Went through. 



*L. B. Beyndds 1.40i ... — 

H. Smith 2.8 ... 2.14 



W. K. Adam 2.24 



S. G. Hough 2.26 ... 2.29^ 

E. D. SeweU 2.26} ... — 



A. Lloyd 2.27 

E. H. Hindley 2.28 

H. L. Byan 

H. M. Hewitt .... 
W. Wyndham .... 



.. 2.291 
.. 2.82} 
2.32 ... — , 
2.32J ... — . 
2.38 ... — . 



B. H. M. Francis... 2.37 ... — 
T. D. Belfield 2.44i ... 2.48 

A. C. Forster 2.47 ... 8.4 

A. Hawley 2.56 ... 3.8 

J. W. Alison 8.14 ... — 

B. M. Gruggen 4.18 ... — 

From Maidenhead the two Reynolds had the lead quite 
in their owir hands, and H. R. Reynolds passed the post at 
2.68 p.m., being 7hr. 28min. from the start. 



Went through. 
Went through. 

Went through, accompanied 

by O'BeiUy. 
Went through, accompanied 

by B. G. Francis. 
Accompanied by A. H. Koch 
and Weeks. 



Went through. 
Went through. 



The order in which the post was passed, and the times 
occupied, are as below : — 





"S'iTIaL TLKTITRlf 


Hr. min. sec. 


1. 


H. B. Beynolds, enamelled medal ... 


.. 7 28 


2. 


L. B. Beynolds, previous medallist ... 


.. 7 32 


8. 


Harold Smith, 2nd medal 


.. 8 1 45 


4. 


W. Wyndham, 3rd medal 


.. 8 24 55 


5. 


W. K. Adam, 4th medal 


.. 8 25 30 


6. 


S. G. Hough, 5th medal 


.. 8 27 10 


7. 


E. D. Sewell K dead 6th and 


1 8 30 85 


8. 


A. Lloyd I heat 7th medals 


9. 


E. H. Hindley, 8th medal 


.. 8 34 55 


10. 


H. L. Byan, 9th medal 


8 85 


11. 


H. M. Hewitt, 10th medal 


.. 8 85 30 


12. 


B. H. M. Francis, certificate 


.. 8 46 55 


13. 


T. D. Belfield ditto 


.. 8 53 30 


14. 


A. C. Forster ditto 


.. 9 18 


15. 


A. Hawley ditto 


.. 9 18 


16. 


J. W. Alison ditto 


.. 9 24 30 



Beck, R. B. Hough, Morris, Thorn, and Wigan trained up 
the latter part of the course ; Meyer and Gruggen rode 
through very pluckily, and both reached Hounslow after 
5.30 p.m., looking as though they done a hard day s work. 

The men, on their arrival at Hounslow, adjoume^ to the 
" Milford Arms," where tea was provided. The house has 
again come into fresh hands, and though the landlord showed 
great desire to provide for our comfort, he was perhaps not 
quite so successful as his predecessor last year. Possibly 
his inexperience of hungry men, fresh from a hundred miles 
ride, prevented him from rightly gauging our appetites. 
A serious hitch, too, occurred in the conveyance of the 
luggage from Bath ; it should have reached Brentford, to 
which it was forwarded from Paddington, at 3.10 o'clock ; 
but on arrival of the train, the two large sacksful of goods 
and chattels were not forthcoming to the driver of the 
conveyance sent for them by the landlord of the " Milford 
Arms." Much disappointment resulted; but the good 
humour of the new Medallists was contagious, and the 
suflferers were more lenient with the poor Captain than he 
had any right to expect. The missing bags were found by 
him, after the dispatching of letters and telegrams right 
and left in every direction, about seven p.m. at Brentford 
Station, which place they reached shortly before that hour. 

The wind during the day was light, from the S. andS.W., 
and weather fine though rather close. Roads near Bath 
rough, sticky, and in places greasy. On the Downs the 
travelling was very good ; from Reading to Hounslow it was 
fairly good in the centre, though very rough at the sides. 
Near Colnbrook, 80 yards of soft ground were walked by 
nearly all. At Bath our thanks were due to Mr. Penner 
for his attention to our comfort ; probably at no hotel in 
the country do our men ever meet with more uniform 
courtesy and consideration. 

To the Timers— Alfred Herbert, W. A. Smith, Koch, and 
A. Henry— our thanks are certainly due for their self-denying 
and most valuable work. They are requested to tell the 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



93 



Captain of the expenses they may have incurred in connection 
with their commissariat. The latter on his own account 
wishes also to thank all the competitors for their kindness 
in helping him to carry through the various duties connected 
with the Trial of 1883. 

NOTICE TO COMPETITORS. 
By an accident, which I very much regret, the luggage 
sent by me on Whit-Monday from Paddington to Brentford 
direct did not reach the latter place till 6.30 p.m. There 
I found it at 7 o'clock, and as most of the men liad then 
left the " Milford Arms " I thought it best to bring it up 
to town, where it now awaits its owners who can receive 
their property by calling at any time at the address 
below. If preferred I will forward any asticles on receiving 
instructions. 

As two men left Newbury without paying for their dinners 
I shall be glad if they and any others who may have done so, 
will remit the amounts to W. A. Smith, Savernake Cottage, 
Acton, who kindly settled with the landlord of the " Chequers.' 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain, 

* 42, Finsbury Square, RC. 

NOTES BY THE NINTH MILESTONE. 
At last my inborn merit has been recognised, and I have 
been requisitioned as special correspondent by the Editor. 
Another proof, this, of his extraordinary talents — not one 
of the members who had previously held the reins of this 
largely circulating journal having had the discernment to 
select one who is admirably placed, and who has seen all 
the finishes of the previous trials save one, when from cir- 
cumstances over which he had no control, or, in other words^ 
because Theo. Godlee would sit on him, he was unable to 
see A. D. Butler do/he best and least rewarded performance 
yet accomplished on the via sacra. 

The first occurence worthy of note was the arrival of an 
important officer, whose head-gear was of an sBsthetic kind. 
Deep was the pang I felt for him, which was rivalled by the 
ostler of a neighbouring pub., whose inclinations had led him 
to adopt the same description of tile, not, alas, of the same 
subdued colour, but of a vivid blue, bound about with 
scarlet. 

# « • * • « 

It was curious to note the interest taken in the event by 
the inhabitants of Hounslow. On H. R. Reynolds riding 
in with his well known dash, in the good time of 7h. 28m.^ 
one of the local magnates informed an admiring audience 
" That the time was two minutes longer than last year." 
Another gave out that the prizes were only medals, and 
that the real object of the competitors was to reap honour 
for the Club," and the words " They are the London Bicycle 

Club," were frequently repeated in explanatory whispers. 

• * • * « « 

The approbation of the bystanders, however, appeared to 



be confined to the L.B.C., as every other bicyclist was the 
target for a good deal of chaflF. " You'll win, sir," ejaculated 
an irrepressible yokel to a rider adorned with gold lace, etc. 
• *«*•• 

As the time drew near when the first arrivals were ex- 
pected, there was a good sprinkling of the fair sex anxiously 
awaiting the hero of the day. No less than three were on 
tricycles ; indeed, I never saw so many ladies riding, as 
several others passed without stopping. 

#••«»• 

A good many L.B.O. men were at the winning post. I 
noticed also Mr. Rucker, senior, and Mr. Hough, senior. 
«««««« 

Of the racing itself you will no doubt be informed by a 
less stationary person than myself, for after all a Milestone 
is, for reasons that can be easily understood, somewhat 
limited in his experience of this subject ; but I may point 
out that the Reynolds Brothers made a close race of it for 
the enamelled, riding together for 95 miles ; that Harold 
Smith spurted in gamely; that Wjmdham's success was 
most popular; that Adam was only thirty-five seconds 
behind Master Waddy ; that Hough looked fit ; that the 
Dead Heat was cleverly managed; and that Hindley, 
Ryan, and Hewitt were close together. 

Ten minutes after the last medal was gone, in rode 
R. H. M. Francis. I always feel sorry for the eleventh 
man, especially when he makes such good time as 8.47. 
However, he can console himself with the thought that it 
takes a very good man to ride 100 miles in that time, and 
that if he had not stopped quite so long on the road he 
might have been better placed. 

««•«•• 

But the most unfortunate man was Figott, who broke 
his bi., and missed the train to Bath by three minutea 

And now I must make up my mind to another wearisome 
period of some twelve months before I can again have the 
excitement of seeing another finish in the Bath Trial A 
bitter thought this is to your correspondent. 

The Ninth Milestone. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir,— I beg at the instance of the South-West D.C. to 
withdraw tlie expression " hopelessly bad " as applied to 
the average attendance of his District. I had not calcu- 
lated this year s average, and must have been led to 
imagine it worse than it really is by reading such accounts 
in the Gazette as " Present : H. L. Ryan and A. E. 
Buckler " ; " Present : the following four members " ; 
" Mustered three strong," etc. As to the comparison of 
last year's attendance with that of the South-East, not 
only should the Editorial foot note concerning the three 



Digitized by 



94 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



picnics not be forgotten, but it should be noticed further 
that throughout the year the S.W. include in their calcu- 
lations members from other Districts, and outsiders, while 
the S.E., who were favoured with the company of thirty-one 
visitors, are content to base their averages upon the 
number present of their own members, and to include no 
one. 

But as I have already had occasion several times to 
remark, the question of attendance is only a side issue ; for 
even if every member in the West and South West did his 
duty always in the matter of Club runs, I should still think 
it advisable to dismember the West. 

I don't, sir, blame anyone for the existing state of things, 
and I don't forget the irresistible attraction of the river ; I 
only submit that this quarter of the club is not as prosperous 
as it might be, and I bring under the notice of your readers 
a scheme by which it might in my humble opinion be 
bettered, and — 

The sole drift of my purpose doth extend 
Not a frown further. 

And now, sir, as we have reached, ad I apprehend that 
we have, the conclusion of this discussion, let me pass for a 
moment to an entirely different subject. I wish, as the 
seconder of the motion which changed the locale of our 
Annual Race Meeting, to be allowed, as the mover already 
has done, to record my opinion that to keep to a two mile 
handicap in the face of five other meetings with open events 
in the London neighbourhood is absolutely suicidal, and to 
express a hope that we at all events shall not be held 
responsible for an empty card and an empty cash box. — 
Yours truly, J. S. Whatton. 

ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
What is the new name of the Bicycle Union to be? 
That is the all-important question to be decided at the 
next Council Meeting on the 14th June. The following 
names have been suggested : Bicycle and Tricycle Union ; 
'Cyclists*, or Cycle Union ; Wheelmen's Union ; British 
Union of Wheelmen ; Wheelmen's Association. 

• ♦ * ♦ * « • 

It is said that the first name is hardly comprehensive 
enough, as riders of other machines than bicycles and 
tricycles are likely to increase— quadricycles, " Otto's," etc. 
Some critics think the second name savours to much of 
slang to be acceptable, while others maintain "cycling," 
not " 'cycling," to be a perfectly legitimate word, at least 
as good as the hybrids — bicycle or tricycle. Others again 
advocate one of the last three names. For these, it is said, 
the two first would enable us to retain the name by which 
the B.U. is at present well known, the second even allowing 
us still to use the present contraction. 

*•«««« 

It has been objected in some quarters that the word 
wheelmen " is an Americanism, and therefore unfit for 



English use. But it is an Americanism which will bear 
analysis with an entirely favourable result. It is an excel- 
lent, descriptive Saxon compound which would probably 
meet with the approval of Professor Skeat. Of course, 
there is also the question — Is a new name necessary at all ? 
No doubt, if the founders of the Union were now naming 
it for the first time, they would probably not choose a name 
limited to one branch of the sport ; but still, many people 
may think it as undesirable to change the name of an 
athletic association as that of a commercial firm. I am 
sure our members would rather die on the field," or in 
any other equally convenient place, than change the beloved 
letters L.B.C. (which, according to a recent leader, are as a 
strawberry mark on the left arm of every L.B.C. man), in 
order to " encourage " any amount of tricycling. But we 
shall see what we shall see. I hope those of our members 
who will have to vote on the knotty point in June will give 
the subject a calm and dispassionate consideration, and take 
such action as shall seem fit under the circumstances. 
#••#•• 

The London Tricycle Club held their 100 Mile Road' Race 
on Monday, the ride being from Boston (Market-place) to 
Bell Bar, near Hatfield. Both wind and weather were 
against the competitors, and the roads were also rough. 
The start took place at 6.30. Nixon took the lead early 
in the race, and reached the half-distance in 4 hours 
53 minutes, being then 28 minutes ahead of Rising, and, 
gradually increasing his lead, reached the winning post in 
10 hours 38 minutes ; Rising came in second, 56 minutes 
later, Salmon and Radford (one of our members) riding in 
together half an hour later. 

The Ten Miles Tricycle record was upset at Leicester on 
Tuesday by Lowndes, who won by abdftt three-quarters of 
a mile from Moore, in the splendid time of 34 mins. 3 sees. 
Vesey was third, 8 sees, behind Moore. 

««*«*« 

H. West, of Bristol, cleared the board at the Plymouth 
B.C. Races at Devonport on Monday. He won no less than 
four races, and left some good men behind him. 

The Front Wheel Hub. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The f oUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

May 26.— C.U.Bi.C. University Trials, Cambridge. 
26.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2.— Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool. 
5. — Inter-University Races at Oxford. 
9.— Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



95 



June 9.— C.U.Bi.O. v. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
11.— C.U.Bi.C. Club Races, Cambridge. 
13.— O.U.BlC. v. L.B.a at Crystal Palace. 
16. — ^London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
19. — University College Hospital at Stamford 
Bridge. 

23.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 

30. — Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birmingham. 
80. — A. A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
30.— Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 



July 7. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 

7. — B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One MilelVicycle 

Championships at Birmingliam. 
7. — Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
7. — Belgrave B.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
14. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 
Palace. 

25.— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
Sept. 15.— Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blaokheath Division. 


May 19.— DuKSTABLE. Oeneral Meet with the 0.n.Bi.G. and G.n.Bi.C. 


May 26. 


, Lea Bridge Bd. 8.30 
' and Sy bora's Corner 
8.45, for Erith. 
Meet S.£. 


*'Jack Straw's Cas- 
tle," 8.45, for Tver. 
Meet S.W. and W.. 


Savernake Cottage, 
Mm HiU Boad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
IVBR. ("Swan.") 
Meet N.W. and 
S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for IvBR. 
Meet N.W. and 
W. 


4.0, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Ebtth. MeetN.E. 


"Hare acBiUet,'' 4.80, 
for Ebith. Meet 
N.E. 


H 


^Lea Bridge Rd. 8.30, 
' and Syborn*8 Corner 
1 8.45, for Haelow. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
CasUe" for Chi- 

VOB, 


Savernake Cottage, 
MiU HiU Boad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
CHBNIB8, " Bed- 
ford," via Hare- 
field. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Sbcfpbb- 

TON. 


Papibohabi.— Sanderstead. 
Meet 5.0. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the poipentine casteth off his quills 
when he would.attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believ»it."'Sir T. Bbownx. 

Out of the ten medals, four went to the N.E., three to 
the S.E., and one to each of the other Divisions. 

«•«#•# 

The S.K however carried off the pahn, as the first, 
second, fourth, and fifth arrivals were members of the 
" big district." 

♦ »•♦•• 

Bravo, Waddy ! Judgment and pluck, my boy ! 
«••••* 

I hope that R. H. M. Francis, the " poor dog," will accept 
my sympathy, especially as he also ran close to a medal 
last year in spite of a bad fall. 

*#«««• 

There were no less than four different timers at various 
points in Reading, one of whom was Hampton Roberts. 

• ««••• 

Pour or five wags presented "Bath Oliver" with biscuits, 
synonymous with his sobriquet, at the "White Lion." 
They were pocketed with good grace, and further instal- 
ments will be received. 



A buckled wheel did not seem to disconcert the Hon. Sec. 
His face, beaming with delight from the top of a cart, quite 
refreshed the competitors and varied the monotony of the 
last ten miles. 

E. T. Sachs must look to his laurels. A rival conjuror 
entertained the competitors who went down by the five o'clock 
train on Saturday. 

«•»««* 

Two of the most striking objects on the road were the 
Zulu's bull-poop, and the Captain's 7am o' Chanter. 
««««•« 

The latter was, I hear, donned as a feeler in view of a 
coming change in our head-gear. 

«•«•»• 

The office of Bath-coach is no sinecure, I can tell you ; 
what with spurting on ahead for drinks, and after paying (?) 
to find your man nearly a mile away. I am sure no candi- 
date was more pleased at the sight of the ninth milestone 
th^n was I ! 

To a youthful aspirant to Bath fame well up at 
Marlborough Hill : 

MacU, puer, viHute nova sic itur ad Hodnslow. 

{Virffil, with variations.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Jephson did as good a day's work as anyone. After 

having retired to bed in the small hours of Monday morning 

he got up at about four o'clock and went down toBarrington's. 

After breakfast he took tlie train to Marlborough, and from 

there he coached W. K. Adam for the remaining 66 miles 

to the finish. Those who are unacquainted with the duties 

of this office can form but a small iJea of what it means, 

but when I tell them that one who performed them from 

Reading assured me that he would never do it again, they 

will appreciate the magnitude of Jephson's achievement. 
*«*«•« 

Another member was not content with coaching, and 
thoroughly attending to the wants, of two competitors 
from Maiaenhead, but he also provided oranges for two 
others, one of whom was a quarter of a mile in front. 

Was it admiration of the individuals or a general idea of 
the superiority of man that made the verger's wife of St. 
Mary's, Bath, make two young ladies give up their places to 
two of our members on Sunday evening last wnen the 
church was full? Needless to say that L.B.C. indignation 
was aroused and could but be satisfied by full apologies to 
the fair occupiers of the seats ; and our West member 
declares that the sweet " Certainly !" he received in reply 
made him forget the Bath Trial for the rest of the evening, 

and that is saying a great deal. 

• «««*» 

It was verily a sight to see Jephson and Wigan racing on 
a track fifty rounds to the mile the day before the Trial 

at Bath. Jephson says he did not like the corners. 

• «««*« 

The thanks of several of the competitors are due to The 
O'Reilly for the kind manner in which he saw to their 
machines. 

• ••«*• 

The manner in which bread and milk was indulged in at 
Bath shows that there are still ni^ny who cling to the 

dishes of their early years. 

• • • ♦ « • 

The longing look the Captain gave the men at the st^rt 
showed that although he followed ti e precedent of former 
years his heart was still in the Race in which he has com- 
peted for the last three years. 

» 1 • • • ♦ 

Should there be any members who have doubts as to the 
meaning of club-feeling I can strongly recommend them to 
ride in our Road Trial, and if they don't find it out then — 

they never will. 

• • ♦ ♦ ♦ 

H. R. Reynolds' times compared with last year show the 
following results. Owing to the bad surface to Devizes he 
reached Marlboro' Hill 7 minutes later than last year. 
Newbury was reached 10 minutes 4Q seconds later than the 

Erevious occasion, the roads being soCt in parts. At Reading 
e was 7^ minutes behind, but he arrived at Maidenhead 

2 minutes earlier than last year. 

• «*•«• 

Probably there is no more popular medal than that of 

Wyndham's. And none of the unsuccessful have more of 

the sympathies of members than Gru^gen and Alison. Their 

plucky persistent efforts will, I hope in a future year, if they 

run again, meet with the success they deserve. At any rate 

they entitle them at present to our respect. 

''^ • • • • * 

The usual Sweepstake at Bath resulted in giving the first 
prize, value £2 10s, to E. D. Sewell who drew H. R. Reynolds, 
the second, value £1, to Hindley who drew L. B. Reynolds^ 



and the third, value 12s 6d, to Jephson who drew H. Smith. 

Thirty-three men took shares (2s 6d each), and it contained 

four blanks which fell to Wigan, F. M. Williams, Baldwin, 

and A. S. Morris. 

«•*•«• 

This is the fourth year that Marlboro' Hill has been taken 
by the Herberts. The thanks of the Club are certainly 
their due for the self-denying work that this entails. Esprit 
de corps must still be lurking somewhere among us. 

Bath Sunday is usually a time of tribulation to compe- 
titors. Waddy, however, whose old racing habits had led 
him to discard nervousness, seemed to regard it as one of 
rejoicing, and his pleasant smile went a long way to cheer 
his companions. H. R. Reynolds was quite his old self again 
when the signal was given, though till then he seemed any- 
thing but. happy. Even Hindley was hardly proof against 
the " bad quarter of a hour " preceding the start, though 
at the breakfast, after consuming two chops and steaks and 
eggs to match, he was heard to enquire, with an air of forced 

gaiety, when breakfast would be served. 

• « • « * • ' 

The N.E. D.C. is uproariously delighted at the success of 
the little district in the Bath, and has forgiven much absence 
from Club runs. 

The North East predictions which I shed last week I 
think I may fairly refer to with pride ; all I mean to 
remark is, what did I say about Smith, Lloyd, and S. 6. 
Hough? aiid what does the report say? The Editor's sport- 
ing prophet is out of it. 

«««*«* 

For several days before the Trial H. G. K Brown had 
been sufiBring most acutely from neuralgia and cold, and on 
the day itself he was under the influence of nitrous-oxide 
gas with a gag in his mouUi, just when he ought to have 
been well out of Reading. Porcupine. 

DUNSTABLE MEET.— N.E. DISTRICT. 
The route for next Saturday will be by West Green and 
Colney Hatch, and members at the Lea Bridge Road are 
encouraged to believe that others will go to West Green 
direct. I may remind members of the N.E. that record is 
only 18 ; so we really ouglit to beat that. 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 

CHANGE OP ADDRESS. 
Herbert G. Middleton,*Waltham Villa, Sunny Bank, 
South Norwood. 

0?lJ.Bi.C. vTkB.C. 
This match will be run at the Crystal Palace on Wednes- 
day, 13th June, at 6 p.iit. Tickets, price Is., can be 
obtained from me. ' E. S. Price. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
Wanted. — A strong machine 54 or 56-in. for a beginnner ; 
must be low price, and in good condition. C. E. Parker, 
6, Strand. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C. and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, anj, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darliko & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Ea8tohe',p, London, E.G.— May 17, 1883. 



Digitized by 



Google 



An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



YoL. VI. No. 12.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rights reserved.] 



May 24, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAOl 

Our Enemies ^7 

Committee 

Notices 98 

Dunstable Meet 

AU Round the Wheel 101 



FAQS 

Club Meets 

After the Bath 

Racing Fixtures ^^3 

Quills ^ 103 

Notice to Correspondents ^04 



NOTIOB. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "GiMette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays^ 



OUR ENEMIES. 
We propose to call attention to a field of usefulness 
which the Bicycle Union might well cultivate with great 
benefit to our sport, and it is this. Many agricultural 
societies keep a consulting entomologist for the purpose of 
advising on the best methods of dealing with the insect 
foes of the farmer ; and surely it would be a great benefit 
to the pursuit of cycling that a judiciously selected com- 
mittee should, in a truly scientific spirit, investigate the 
nature of the enemies that prey upon our sport, and should 
prescribe remedies of easy application and certain effect to 
be used against the most common disorders fatal to bicyclists. 
We do not pretend to do more than offer suggestions for 
this great end, and can only deal^with a part of the vast 
inquiry. 

For the subject at once divides itself into two parts; 
there are the causes which prevent people from becoming 
bicyclists at all, and the enemies whose attraction renders 
cyclists faithless to their (bicycling) love. The former 
head opens such a boundless field of inquiry, starting with 
the wide question of why people do anything, that we dare 
not touch it ; and on the latter point we can only suggest 
a few leading inquiries. 

For instance, it is a perplexing question whether the 



profession of a Potterer is at all related to that laziness 
which proves so fatal to some once ardeut cyclists, or 
whether it is not the ultra-energetic individual, represented 
by our correspondent "Dodo," who is more subject to tlie 
attacks of a strong propensity for " Taking of his dolce far 
niente" In our own view the " humble potterer ' — as the 
chief representative of that class delights to call himself— 
is more likely to attain to bicycling old age than the ten- 
miles-before-breakfast-every-morning-young-man, who ulti- 
mately succumbs to "D. F. N." in company. But we 
anticipate. 

Then, what a field for analysis in the rival attractions of 
Lawn Tennis and the River, as diminishing attendances 
at Club Meets. How interesting to scientifically test 
whether an "all-men" or a "mixed" set at tennis is 
a more powerful bait for the bicyclist ! And what a con- 
vincing refutation might be published by the Union, of the 
foolish mistake of supposing that there can be any pleasure 
in knocking "regulation balls" backwards and forwards on 
a high grassy lawn, surrounded with trees not too near to 
spoil the light or too thick to shut out the view, with a 
vision of claret-cup in the distance ! Or, again, what an 
an exposure could be made of the delusive folly of drifting 
down stream in the twilight, with oars barely rippling the 
quiet water, through the dark and mystic shade of lofty 
trees, to where the fxill moonlight shimmers on the peaceful 
river ! How a committee would enjoy investigating these 
matters in the interests of science, and how we should like 
to serve on lhat Committee ! 



uigitizea Dy 



98 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



There is, indeed, another foe the most dangerous of all, 
which we should forbear to mention were it not that the 
damage we are likely to suffer from the winged words of our 
esteemed contributor, "A. W. Oman," will be amply re* 
warded by the gain of the reader of the Gazette. Further, 
this foe lias already attacked so many of our hardest and 
sternest riders with such fetal effect, and the sufferers 
brazen out their lapse from (bicycling) virtue so stonily and 
so angrily, that we fear an allusion to their siren-like 
captors may be followed by the arrival of an angry deputa- 
tion at Eastcheap, and the retreat of the Editor up the not 
too commodious chimney of the editorial den. But duty 
calls : we therefore timidly hint that it is (we believe) a 
medical axiom that persons afflicted with disease of the 
heart should not have recourse to bicycling; and that 
(at least we are so informed on credible authority) inter- 
course with that sex which, as the poet so beautifully 
remarks, " cheers but not inebriates," and study at those 
books which, according to a brother poet, teach naught but 
folly, have a strong tendency to divert from those paths of 
duty which lead to the Club Meet. Possibly, the Committee 
might recommend an extension of the use of the " Sociable," 
which would enable, our stronger brethren to convert some 
misguided sisters (other people's) from their present 
infatuation : at any rate, the Committee would find in 
the Scientific Analysis of the Influence of Woman, and in 
experiments thereon, a most absorbing task. And though 
we cannot disguise from ourselves the danger of those 
researches we are ready to sacrifice ourselves in the causes 
of cycling and scientific research, and we have no hesitation 
in volunteering as a member of that Committee. 

COMMITTEE. 

At a meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 21st 
May, the resignation of Mr. A. H. Garvey was accepted 
as from 1st January last. 

A letter was read from Messrs. Darling & Son, offering 
to make a deduction of 6fl. per publication of the Gazette 
after the month of May, and expressing a wish that the 
friendly relations so long existing between themselves and 
the L.B.C. would continue to be felt. It was decided that 
Messrs. Darling's new tender should be accepted. 

After considerable further discussion it was resolved 
"That the Committee having carefully considered the 
position of tricyclists in the Club, and the question of 
encouraging tricyclists to join our ranks, are of opinion 
that no alteration is advisable in the Club rules or organi- 
sation, and that it is not expedient to hold a Road Trial 
for tricyclists." 

The Special General Meeting was fixed for Monday, 18th 
June, at 6.30 p.m., at the "City Arms Tavern," 

The kind offers of Messrs. Rucker, Theo. Godlee, and 
Scrutton, to present the Club with the prizes for the Club Mile 
were gratefully accepted, and the Hon. Sec. was directed to 
write these gentlemen, thanking them most heartily. 



NOTICE.-SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING. 
The Special General Meeting, to discuss and decide the 
advisability of encouraging Tricyclists to join our ranks, 
will be held at the " City Arms Tavern," St Mary Axe, 
on Monday, 18th June, at 6.30 p.m. 

Agenda. 

The Committee will recommend — 

** That after having carefaUy ooiiBidered tha porition of Tricyclists 
in the Club, and the qnestion of encouraging Tricyclists to join our 
ranks, they are of opinion that no aJteration is advisable in the Clnb 
Rules or organisation, and that it is not expedient to hold a Boad Trial 
for Tricyclists." 

To consider the following motions : — 
Motions by T. E. Scrutton— 

L In Rule 11, to insert before ''members of the Committee" 
" past and present/' and to insert after such words ** or member of the 
Club, being at the time an officer of either of the O.U.BLO. or 
C.U.Bi.O." 

II. To add to Rule 6 '* not being members of any other Bicycle or 
Trfcyde Club having its headquarters within twenty miles of London." 

Motion by W. J. Williams— 

In Rule 2, for the Prizes for Attendance at Club Meets, to alter 
the words "to the extent of the prescribed oourse,** so as to read 
" to a point ten milta distant from the starting place." 

E. S. Prick, Hon. Sec. 

ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
This event of the year, as members are already aware, 
takes place on Saturday, I6th Jane, at 3 p.m. Tickets are 
obtainable from members of the Committee at the reduced 
price of Is. 6d. A free ticket and entry form was sent 
round with the last Gazette, the latter I shall be very 
pleased to receive back filled up for at least the Club Mile. 
The great attraction of this race lies in the fact that three 
ex-Captains of the Club — Messrs. Eucker, Theo. Godlee, 
and Scrutton, liave presented the prizes this year, a thing 
that may not again occur in the annals of the Club. Mem- 
bers are urgently requested to make this meeting a success 
in every way ; those who can, by getting entries, and every- 
one by selling tickets. E. S. PfiiOE, Hon. Sec. 

O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. 
Our Annual Match with the Oxford University Bicycle 
Club will be held on the Crystal Palace Track on Wednes- 
day, 13th June, at 6 p.m. Tickets are obtainable from me 
at Is. each. Although members do not save anything by 
purchasing them from the Club, they are particularly re- 
quested to do so, as we have to settle with the Crystal 
Palace Company for one hundred tickets, whether used or 
not. £. S. Pbice, Hon. Sec. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS. 

I must remind those members who have delayed sending 
in their Subscriptions that they are now five months 
overdue. I call their particular attention to Rule 18. 

151, Amhurst Road, Hackney. R. B. Hough. 

NOTICE.— IMPORTANT. 
L.B.C. Matches with the UNrvBRSiriES. 
I shall be glad to receive names of any members who 
may be willing to ride for our Club in either of the above. 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



99 



S.R DISTRICT. 
Next Saturday it is to be hoped that as many as possible 
will turn out for the run to Erith to give the N.E. a hearty 
welcome on S.E. soil. The Croydon division will start at 
4.15 punctxjuiUy, and proceed direct to Erith vid Orpington. 
We shall have tea at the " Cross Keys " inn, which stands 
on the river side. 

R. G. Francis, Dfetrict Captain. 



N.E. DISTRICT. 
I hope members will recollect that we go to Erith next 
Saturday, and that it is a well established precedent to 
have a good muster. The roads in the S.E. are going 
really to be good this time. 

Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



W. DISTRICT. 
Next Saturday is the run to Iver, for which I hope all 
who can will manage to assemble at 3.45. The average 
attendance so far far exceeds that of any other year, so if 
each member will do his best to sustain that average through 
the entire season the result will reflect the greatest credit 
on the District, as also on those members who have given 
it their support. 

Habold G. Pioott, District Captain. 

LAWN TENNIS. 
All worthy members have given their attention to the 
Bath Trial lately, and I presume the entries for the tourna- 
ment have suffered, as only fifteen names are down ; 
consequently anyone who wishes to enter may send in his 
name and shilling any time before Monday evening, 
28th instant. Under no circumstances will any entry be 
accepted after this time. H. N. Shabp. 



GENERAL MEET AT DUNSTABLE WITH THE 
OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY 
BICYCLE CLUBS. 

The adventures of the various Districts are thus recorded 
by their respective D.C's. SuiBce it now to say that 
St. Albans, the appointed rendezvous, saw about forty men, 
representing all Districts but the S.E., awaiting the order 
to start at 5.45 p.m. Concerning the S.E. men, the S.E. 
D.C. writes : — 

" Shortly after ten o'clock last Saturday morning, a small 
body of South-East men might have been seen leaving the 
" Town and Borough of Croydon " for the Dunstable Meet. 
There was MacRae, Paull, Whealler, and the D.C. ; but 
the quartette thus formed was soon to be increased by one, 
for the ex-D.C. with one of his demon spurts, literally 
dashed into our midst just as we reached Sutton. Some 
little disappointment was felt at finding no one at Nonsuch 
Park Gate ; we had hoped that a kinder fate would have 



smiled on us. However, casting our care to the winds in 
true holiday style, we jogged on merrily to Kingston. 
Here, it is darkly rumoured, one or two so far forgot 
themselves as actually to indulge in iced ginger beer, while 
the ex-D.C. was engaged in one of his periodical tinkerings. 
After a steady slog against the wind over the Feltham Flats, 
we were met by our old chief, Fred Williams, who kindly 
invited the whole party to lunch. Those present will not 
soon forget the genial hospitality and good fare accorded 
them at West Drayton by Mr. and Mrs. Williams. 

With no time to spare we were soon on our way again, 
and, with F. Williams for our guide, the party was made up 
to a round half dozen. A slight tendency to spurt oc- 
casionally jarred on the complete harmony of our going, 
but, with plenty of ballast and a steadying breeze, we made 
our way through Rickmansworth and Watford — ^to borrow 
a nautical expression — with a tolerably even keel to St. 
Albans. Here we heard news of Stephen Smith and his 
merry men — four in number — who had ridden from Black- 
heath. As we did not feel quite equal to the official 
thirteen miles an hour, we made a start before the main 
body arrived, and were soon extended in loose order along 
the loose track of the Dunstable Road. The wind was a 
noser, and it wasn't nice on the whole. One man said he 
liked it, but we didn't believe him, and his machine leaning 
with a rakish air against the walls of more than one hostelry 
gave evidence in our favour. Even the long ascent through 
Market Street could not last for ever, and at last a view of 
Dunstable on ahead rewarded our exertions, and a vision of 
the ' Sugar Loaf ' itself completed our happiness. 

Dunstable i3 not very accessible to the South East, still 
there are one or two men whose consciences should prick 
them on reading the names of the sixteen S.E. men who 
were present." 

Concerning the West District, the W. D.C. writes : — 

** Four members assembled at Savernake Cottage at three 
o'clock punctually, including the 1).C. No time was lost 
in making a start, for we were due at St. Albans at 5.45, 
and the motto of this district is 'punctuality.' The route 
chosen was via Hanger Hill, Alperton, and Sudbury, where 
we struck the main Harrow Road. Branching to the right 
at the bottom of the hill we wended our way through the 
pretty lanes leading to Harrow Station, whose beauty 
was somewhat diminished by the bad surface, which caused 
rather unparliamentary language to flow glibly from the 
tongues of most of us. For preference, the Oxey Lane was 
chosen, which leads over a picturesque and undulating 
country to Watford. Passing through the town, and turning 
to the right, we joined the main Reading and St. Albans 
road, the surface of which was indeed excellent, the perfect 
pleasure of gliding over which only being marred by a 
N.W. wind, which was here encountered in full force. 
Owing no doubt to the pleasant company, and its con- 
sequent conversation on everything in general, the time and 



Digitized by VJ^O^IC 



100 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



roads passed so quickly that ure found ourselves at the 
bottom of St. Albans Hill by 5.15. Here was the first 
dismount made, only the B.C. essaying to negotiate the 
precipitous pitch leading to the 'Pea Hen.' Distance 
from Acton 23 miles, time 2 hours 15 minutes. At St. 
Albans we waited for the other divisions by order of the 
Captain ; consequently three-quarters of an hour was wiled 
away until all had assembled/when a general move was 
made for Dunstable under the excellent generalship of the 
Commander-in-Chief. Only two West essayed to ride 
home again that night, Leeds and the D.C. starting at 
9.30 ; home was reached at 1.30 a.m., after an enjoyable 
run by moonlight. ' Self praise is no recommendation,' but 
the District is to be congratulated upon the successful 
muster." 
The N.W. D.C. reports 

"Only five men left *Jack Straw's' at the appointed 
time, or rather a quarter of an hour late, and rode vid the 
usual rough road to Tally Ho ! where the N.E. and several 
N.W. were waiting. After this the District was amalga- 
mated with the main body, and had no separate history." 

The S.W. D.C. reports :— 

"Two members of the S.W. met at the 'Coach and 
Horses,' Eew, at the appointed time, and as no other re- 
presentative of this or any other District had joined them 
by 3.15 p.m., they thereupon made a start for St. Albans. 
The route selected was by Ealing Common, Pinner Hill, 
Sudbury Station, Harrow Weald, and several other interest- 
ing places, to the ' Pea Hen ' at St. Albans, which reached 
in sufficient time to start with the other Districts from 
thence to Dunstable. After so severe a trial as the recent 
one from Bath, the hill leading up to the 'Pea Hen' 
seemed to present no insurmountable difficulty to one of 
our members, who skilfully^negotiated it ! 

We overtook Naylor on a tri. wending his solitary way 
into St. Albans." 

The N.E. D.C. reports 

"The exact starting points of the N.E. are a little 
confusing. Baldwin started early. Lyne and Large got to 
Dunstable early. The Captain and Lloyd left Walthamstow 
about 3.0 ; the D.C. and Weeks about 20 minutes past. 
Gibbs and Long were a little late at the comer, and after 
waiting in divers likely spots were picked up by the D.C. 
and Weeks who were flying rather for Tally Ho ! Nevill 
came up to Tally Ho ! with the N.W. as far as can be 
gathered, and Rucker brought Kinder through London. 
Stunt reached Dunstable, but history is indistinct how. 
Forster started very late, bat got into tea. This leaves the 
main body which consisted of the brothers Hough, E. D. 
Sewell, Kekey, and Gerard Smith, who may be assumed to 
have left Lea Bridge at 3.0 o'clock sharp and proceeded to 
Tally Ho ! Of the above, thirteen left Tally Ho ! in company 
with the N.W., (it will be readily calculated who these werej 
and they proceeded with the main body to Dunstable except 



Gerard Smith who had not had his bicycle out for some 
time, and who turned back at St. Albans, so that the total 
at Dunstable was seventeen. Of these seventeen, six, 
namely the Captain, Long, Gibbs, Kelsey, Baldwin, and 
very likely Weeks, who is a problem, stayed at Dunstable, 
the remaining eleven making their ways home at divers 
times and paces." 

Report from the Captain of the O.U.Bi.C. :— 
" Nine members left the Club rooms at 12.20 for Dunstable. 
After getting clear of the town the pace was made fetirly 
fast, and with a favourable breeze, no halt was made until 
about two miles beyond Thame. Here Walter and D. R. 
Smith were sent on to order lunch at Aylesbury, and 
Andrews, who was riding a borrowed machine two sizes too 
large for him, and with a most galling saddle, changed 
machines with the Captain. Loose order was maintained 
until Aylesbury was reached at 2.40. Here Andrews, having 
beep sufficiently tortured by his saddle, left us and trained 
to Dunstable. Having made a hearty lunch at the "George," 
we started again at four o'clock. The roads being good, and 
everything in our favour, we bowled merrily along through 
Aston Clinton, and then taking a sharp turn to the left we 
made for Ivinghoe. Here we met Jephson and Wigan, and 
after a few minutes' halt we rode on across the Downs to 
Dunstable. About four miles from Dunstable, Newenham, 
through pulling up too soon, croppered and involved Jephson 
in his downfall. However, after a few minutes rest and 
having straightened the handle bars of both machines, we 
rode on, reaching Dunstable, where we found Croftou await- 
ing us, soon after 6.0 p.m. 

Bide Home from Dunstable. 
Walter, D. R. Smith and the Captain started from Dun- 
stable exactly at 8.0 p.m., with a splendid moon, and a 
breeze in our faces just sufficient to keep us cool. The pace 
was made warm, and Aylesbury, seventeen miles, was reached 
in Ihr. and 12mins. Here a halt of 25mins. was made 
and some delicious tea and hot toast partaken of at the 
" George." From Aylesbury the pace was made somewhat 
slower, and without a dismount, we reached Magdalene 
Bridge (23 miles from Aylesbury), in five minutes under 
the two hours, and we reach our respective Colleges with a 
quarter of an hour in hand." 
Report-from the Captain of the C.U.Bi.C. — 
" The Cambridge men rode down in two divisions, fast 
and slow, the latter of which was overhauled at Baldock by 
the fast lot, headed by the secretary in his best form. 
From Baldock the two divisions rode together twenty strong 
to Dunstable, which they reached at 6. 30 p.m. The two other 
members came separately from Cambridge by road, and 
one availed himself of the train for part of the distance. 
The road was rough and the wind contrary. Distance 40 
miles. After tea, the arrangements for which were greatly 
appreciated, the main body returned to Hitchin for the 
10-20 train ; four rode the whole way, and the Captain 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



101 



went on to St. Alban's with part of the Weet District and 
the Blackheath Division. The ''Queen's" thereat has 
changed hands and can be recommended. He returned via 
Tewin, Welwyn, and Hitchin, on the following day." 

Having thus conducted the University men and the 
S.E. District to Dunstable, the progress of the main body, 
made up of the four other L.B.C. Districts, from St. Albans 
to Dunstable, must be narrated. This latt^, assembled at 
the "Pea Hen," after waiting a few minutes for chance 
stragglers, left about 6 p.m. ; they were a little late, but 
hoped by punctuality and strict adherence to business to 
merit the applause of the friends at Dunstable prepared to 
welcome them at 7 p.m. However, Vhomme propose, tho* 
the wind disposes^ and the best laid plans of men and mice 
go oft awry. So was it with the Captain and his battalions. 

A fierce N.E. wind and thirteen miles of loose and dusty 
high road soon thinned out the ranks, and only by frequent 
slowiogs up could the stragglers be kept in hand. Rucker, 
Kinder, and Qruggen did duty, and did it most carefully 
and efficiently as leaders, while Lloyd and Hough, sen., 
acted as rearmen — the latter stopping behind with an 
unfortunate who had passed over his handles, and^ 
bringing him up triumphantly after a long stern chase. 
Eight miles out from St. Alban's the enforced stoppages tried 
the patience of our younger bloods too severely, and as they 
sailed ahead over the distant hills the Caplain was seen to 
be nervously searching his pockets for the accustomed six- 
shooter. Had he not by an accident ^which will no^ 
recur) omitted to provide himself with this aid to discipline 
the Club would have lost one of its most genial officers^ 
Soon the roofs and chimneys of Dunstable suggested that 
our journey was uearing its end, and the slow contingent 
having amalgamated itself with the main body, the column 
entered the town in very good form at 7J5, and with a 
passing cheer from the (Tniversity men and some of our 
own members at the Town Hall, disbanded at the sign of 
the "Old Sugar Loaf." Here they found extensive wash, 
ing appliances, and with little loss of time adjourned to 
the hall, where the capital tea, which Mr^ Saunders with 
his well-known liberality, had provided, soon banished 
all remembrance of dusty roads, head winds, and end- 
less hills. At eight o'clock the University men to our 
regret left us ; but before going, the L.B.C. was proposed 
by J. S. Whatton the Cambridge Captain — the O.U.Bi.C. 
was proposed by the L.B.C. Captain — and the C.U.Bi.C. by 
W. F. M. Buckley the Oxford Captain ; the latter gave a 
finish to the proceedings by calling three cheers for the 
Cambridge men, which was briefly acknowledged on their 
behalf by C. A. E. Pollock of their Club and our own. 
When our friends had gone, the hungry L.B.C. men settled 
down to work, and were soon so well eng^^ed that they 
failed even to notice the non-attendance of the Town Band 
— absent from the indisposition of the Trombone, who, since 
our last visit, has married and gone out of training. The 



good moon induced many to ride home, some it was said, 
among whom was the S.E. D.C.'s Substitute, making 
Blackheath at 3 a.m. Many men slept in Dunstable, and 
were well cared for by Mr. Saunders, to whom our thanks 
and those of Oxford and Cambridge are due for his kindness 
and unfailing good nature. Altogether our triple Meet this 
year may be regarded as a success, and it is pleasant to 
learn that the University men are as much gratified as 
ourselves. 
Present : — 

Grand Total ^ 90. 

Consisting of— 

L.B.C. ••• ... ••• 55 men. 

Joint L.B.C. and University ... 12 „ 

Cambridge 18 „ 

Oxford ... 5 „ 

S.E, H. G. A. Brown, A. Day, S. Herbert, J. Kinder, 
MacRae, Morgan, The O'Reilly, PauU, F. B. Smith, 
S. P. Smith, S. E. Whealler, R. G. Francis. 
8. W, H. L. Ryan, R. M. Gruggen. 
W. Koch, Dr. Langmore, W. Meyer, W. E. Naylor, 
Radford, Sewell, 0. Thorn, F. M. Williams, H. C. Pigott. 

N.E, Baldwin, Ashley Barrett, A. C. Forster, G. H. 
Gibbs, R. B. Hough, S. G. Hough, Kelsey, Large, Lloyd, 
Long, Lyne, Nevill, Rucker, E. D. Sewell, Stunt, Weeks, 
Theo. Godlee. 

N. W. Alison, Barnett, E. L. Boyer, J. Boyer, W. R. 
Boyer, Elgood, Hawley, Hindley, Jackson, Lown, McBean, 
C. Newman, Price, TuUoch, W. J. Williams. 

L,B.a and C, U.BLG, A. B. W. Whatton, J. S. What- 
ton, C. A. E. Pollock, Leeds, Latham. 

L,B,a and O.U.Bi.C. D. R. Smith, C. Wigan, 
W. F. M. Buckley, L. Andrews, W. A. G. Walter, 
M. H. Jephson, G. Stapleton. 

C.U.Bi.C. Barton, Batten, Brown, Carr, Ellrington, 
Fagan, Fox, Gibson, Harmer, Jolly, MofiFatt, Olive, Quinn, 
Richardson, Rumney, Schwind, Sykes, Tanner. 

O.U.Bi.C. R. T. Nicholson, A. B. Newenham, G. F. 
Woolridge, W. M. Merry, Rev. W. d'A. Crofton. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The May list of candidates for the C. T. C. numbers 1058. 
As far as can be ascertained nearly 7500 names are now 
entered on the roll. 

• ••••• 

At the Annual General Meeting to be held at Birmingham 
on Saturday, the most important resolutions are proposals 
by Mr. G. C. Locket, that an entrance fee of half-a-crown 
be charged after 1st July next, and another by Mr. W. B. 
Tanner, that from the end of the current year the entrance 
fee be one shilling, and that the subscription be four 
shillings per annum, to include ticket and handbook. 



Googl( 



Digitized by 



102 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



The Hampton Court Meet was held for the tenth time on 
Saturday. The number of riders fell short of last year's, 
and the largest Club muster was that of the Brixton 
Ramblers, who were 39 strong. A conspicuous feature was 
the large number of riders who preferred to play the part 
of spectators. 

At the Sutton B. C. Meeting at the Crystal* Palace on 
Saturday, the Five Miles Invitation Scratch Race was won 
by H, W. Gaskell, W. K. Adam was second, Tacagni third, 



and F. L. Adam fourth. G. F. Beck also started and was 

close up at the finish. Gaskell covered the last mile in 

2 min. 50 sec. 

• ••«•• 

At the West Kent Meeting on Saturday next there are 

seventy-three entries for the Open Mile Handicap, and the 

following are amongst them, and if all goes well there ought 

to be some good racing. Gaskell, Buckley, Thompson, 

Tacagni, W. K, Adam, F. L. Adam, Wyndham, Butler, 

Mackinlay, Beck, and Latham Cli^ke. 

Thb Front Wheel Hub. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 



N.E. 



N.W. 



W, 



S.W. 



S.E. 

Croydon Division. 



S.E. 

BlAckheath Division . 



Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80 
and Syborn's Corner 
8.45, for Erith. 
Meet S.E. 



Jack Straw's Cas- 
tle," 3.45, for Iver. 
Meet S.W. and W.. 



Savemake Cottage, 
MUl HiU Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Iver. ("Swan.") 
Meet N.W. and 
S.W. 



Kingston Station, 
4.15, for IvEB. 
Meet N.W. and 
W. 



4.0, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Ebitb. MeetN.K 



<'Hare&Bmet,''4.80, 
for Ebith. Meet 
N.E. 



1 



I Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
and Sybom's Comer 
3.45, for Hablow. 



8.45, « Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Ohs- 

NIBS. 



Sayemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Chbmies, " Bed- 
ford," via Hare- 
field. 



Kingston Station, 
4.15, for SlUBFPSB- 
TON. 



PikPBBCHABX.— Sandetstead. 
Meet 5.0. 



AFTER THE BATH. 
So they were I All of them ! The ex-Editor, with sim- 
plicity one would hardly expect from a long experience, 
imagines he has only to ring the bell to get a bath. Boots 
tells him he will have it ready in ten minutes, but Fred.^ 
after waiting about half-an-hour, comes down to find the 
wily ones have engaged everything that will hold water. 
But I am going away from the point before I have even 
come to it, for the bath eve>yone was after was at Dunstable. 
We had all to get to St. Albans. Not meaning to exert 
myself against a head wind I start early, with a man who 
has not ridden this year. He gives me an awful doing — 
begin to think there is not much glory about that medal I 
won on Monday if this is the kind of thing I shall have to 
put up witL St. Albans at last — Cyclomaniac appears — 
wonder what that tremendous rubber ring in front is for — 
should like to ask him, but he disappears — arrival of 
S.E., with their Captain disguised in a Reynolds' hat and 
O'Reilly shoes — we start in good order — wish there was an 
enamellist to ride on with — must be much easier than 
riding with some of these novices who will persist in spurting 
me up hills — don't like hills— think they are a great mis- 
take — Dunstable reached— Stephen P. taking the part of 
Sister Ann on balcony of Town Hall — no band this year — 
evidently afraid to make too much of us because of the 
soldiers in the town — two youthful aspirants to bicycling fame 
career wildly up and down in front of hotel on boneshakers, 
nearly capsizing late arrivals — don't think I could work one 
up the hill — have a wash — tea— only a few of the men seem 



to know one another— The O'Reilly turns up amidst great 
applause — the three Captains seem to have made speeches, 
but the hall is so bad for sound, that beyond the first two or 
three words I heard nothing — they might have coupled 
" ladies " with the ** gentlemen," as we are honoured by a 
few of the fair sex in the ladies' gallery — I hear one very 
young member remark, " there's a deal of gal about that 
gallery ; " but of course he will grow older later on — wish 
they would have some songs — remember they went down 
very well at Hitehin — a very fetching programme might be 
made up — say, for instance — ^part song — " Which way does 
the wind blow*' — by this year's starters — Baldwin might 
oblige with Let me like a soldier fall " — then a glee by 
the Bath medallists, " Oh, who will o'er the downs so free" — 
next, Qodlee might give us, " 'Tis but a little faded flower," 
and a grand finale — special engagement, for one night only, 
of the bugler attached to the regiment quartered in the 
town, so that we could recall the echoes of the past on 
hearing once again the bugle calls printed in the blue book, 
and the newer members might get an idea of the martial 
strains with which our every action was accompanied and 
set to music ; but no, — the Captain is too matter of fact, 
and soon is deep in Club business with Whatton — should 
not like to be tackled with a note book such as the L.B.C. 
Captain runs — Sewell and Thorn have come down by 
train — ^always did want to see Sewell ever since I read his 
articles in the Gazette — won't have too much to say to 
him, tho' — might find myself in his next — have never seen 
Oliver out of costume before — doesn't seem right — the boro' 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



103 



of Dunstable has evidently seen Fred on the 'bos, for they 
have fized a poster with a caution to drivers on to him — 
the Nor'-Easters start for home — don't think Qodlee can 
do justice to that flower and control his new medallists at 
the same time. 

Turn into smoking room — ^wish Titeboy would go on 
telling tales instead of the other fellows talking Bath Trial 
—nothing but L. B., H. R., and Waddy— had enough of 
them on Monday — ^the "enamel seems to partake of the 
nature of the chameleon ; one man swears to it being 
white, another blue, and both are right — go to bed — don't 
get to sleep, four festive gentlemen having a bolster fight 
overhead. Nor do Captain's duties seem to have ended, 
for I hear him having a long discussion as he takes his last 
pipe with two Committee men. At last to sleep, and 
dream of Harold Smith arriving at the ninth milestone on 
a machine with only one spoke left in it. Woke at five, 
and saw the O'Reilly start — such energy ought to be en- 
couraged among the younger members — ^tum in again until 
8.30. Great discussion at breakfast betweeitthree married 
men — Williams, Radical; Kinder, Liberal; Brown, Con- 
servative ; Barrett, Speaker. Make a start with two men 
who seldom ride, and three scorchers — ^first-named take us 
at a rare pace to St. Albans. Here we meet a lot of our 
men, and seeing Whatton a short way up the hill, send the 
N.W. infant in pursuit. J. S. W. seemed to think of 
coming back until he heard the Captain was at the 
" Peahen ; " but then, having that note book in mind, rode 
straight on. Some delay in getting dinner, as the Bishop 
engages the attention of the entire staff. Hardly the place 
one would expect to find a Bishop. Look round Cathedral 
— ordination going on — get into the saddle again — two 
casuals still taking us along ; one soon turns off, and the 
other, who is showing us the way, beguiles us gently down 
a long hill, with the wind at our backs, anc( leaves us with 
the remark that he now turned off to the right, and we 
should have turned to the left at the top. By the way, I 
suppose, there was an Affirmation Bill passed for Mr. 
Dioscorides, to save him the trouble of swearing at the 
porpentine. The flyers, on getting again to the top, make 
the pace warmer-^mildly suggest would be a nice gate to 
sit on — remark met with grim silence by my adversaries, 
who look upon it as a sign of weakness on my part, and 
make the pace very hot — express my intention of not going 
so fast now I have won a medal, and don't— ^hall be afraid 
to wear that medal when it is presented to me— everyone 
will go for me if they only know. Come to the conclusion 
there are a good many " Trials after the Trial" 

N. H., Jun. 



W. A. Smith would feel greatly obliged if members of 
the Club would refrain from calling upon him at his place 
of business during office hours, the rules of the establish- 
ment being " no followers allowed." 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bole 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The f oUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetinsfs mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

May 26.— C.U.Bi.C. University Trials, Cambridge. 
26 .— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
26.— West Kent Races at Crystal Palace. 
June 2.— Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 
2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool 
5. — Inter-University Races at Oxford. 
9. — Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
9 — C.U.Bi.a V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
ll._C.XJ.Bi.C. Club Races, Cambridge. 
13._0.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16.— London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
16.— Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
19. — University College Hospital at Stamford 
Bridge. 

QUILLS. 

'* AzistoUe and Pliny deUver it that the porpentine casteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of foUy to believe it"— Sir T. BBOWJn. 

Would-be prophets of the Bath Trial will be consoled to 
learn from an ingenious correspondent of the Echo that out 
of sixtyHsix published prophecies for the recent meeting at 

Newmarket, only eight proved correct ! 

• • • • • • 

The Editor is rather proud, so he tells me, of his pre- 
dictions. His leading article selected only twelve candi- 
dates, of whom eleven started; eight took medals, including 
the first three, and six out of the first eight, and he tells 
me he only refrained from mentioning W. E. Adam on 
being told on first-rate authority that he wasn't going to 
start. 

I am requested to contradict the rumour that the Captain 
has been offered a contract in connection with the new 
Parcels Post by the G.P.O. 

The Editor was not at Dunstable, missing the Inter- 
University meet for the first time. He was seen in the city 
at a suspicious hour with a suspicious looking bat, but he 
wishes it to be^known that he had a far more serious reason 
for absence than tennis, wbicb is a game he doesn't like and 

can't play at. 

• • • • • • 

At Dunstable I observed certain revolutionists who, in- 
verting the natural order of things, carried their colours — 
black, red, and blue. Such a flagrant violation of Rule 4 
strikes at the very root of all social order. 

I am pleased not to be able to agree with our censorious 
Captain's criticism upon the "Milford Arms" collation.. 
The tea, at any rate, was strong and plentiful— rarely ha/ 
I found better. 



Digitized by 



104 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



The Captain's much-vaunted map of Hertfordshire 
(3d. plain, 6d. coloured) is said by the irreverent S.W. D.C. 
to owe distinctness mostly to its having but one road 
marked upon it. 

Our Editor says he noted at Dunstable several men at 
various times during the evening jotting down in sly 
comers notes and tips to be served up in QuiUs at 
Porcupine's discretion. This pleases me much. 

• ••••• 

Our hungry member informs me he was perfectly satisfied 

last Saturday at Dunstable, for not only was there food in 

abundance, but that wherewith to feast the eyes. 

**«••• 

The little District, though it does not technically beat its 
record, never has had seventeen N.E. members to tea at 
once before. 

A very good portrait of G. P. Coleman appeared in last 

week's issue of the Bicycling News, 

««•••• 

My predecessor 8 motto, "There's a chiel among ye 
takin' notes," is being adopted as a rule of practice by an 
eminent officer of the L.B.C. I hope " he'll print them " 
to carry his motto to its legitimate end. 

«««•«« 

*' TBioTCLnro.— FoUowing the exampla of the old Bicycle Clab (!), 
the One Hundred MUes Road Bace was arranged for Whit-Monday, 
etc.** — Oraphie. 

What have we done to be antiquarianized in this way ? 

Our main body ought certainly to have been larger to 
have done credit to the bunting and the enthusiastic in- 
habitants of Dunstable. 

*•«*•• 

That we made an impression is evident. An old gentlemen 
on the road from St. Albans enquired what Club it was, 
and, being told it was the " London," he remarked, Nice 
lot," to which our irrepressible member replied " Very." 

• * • * • • *. 

In spite of the crowd of faces on the balcony, I was 
assured by a N.W. member that ha recognised Stephen 

Smith two miles off. 

• • • « « ' * 

Dunstable is described in Paterson's as " remarkable for 
the size of its larks." Perhaps this was one of them. 

• ••••« 

The programme of our Race Meeting looks very well on 

the board of the Otter Swimming Club at their baths. 
«•«••• 

There was a rehearsal of " The Bells " at Committee on 
Monday; K B. Hough as Matthias. The chimes of a 

neighbouring church sounded so much like Bath. 

• « * « • • 

L. B. Reynolds ran second in the Mile Race (flat) at the 
Sports of the Victoria Rifles on Saturday. 



Since the Road Trial was instituted, fifty men have 
gained medals, forty-six of whom are still members, which 

is about one fifoh of our present strength. 

• ••••• 

A good account of the Trial, with a brief resume of all 
the previous ones, was published in last week's Field. 

A Lacrosse F^tch will take place this evening, at Clapton, 

between a team consisting of three representatives from 

each of the four following families : viz., Barrett, Newman, 

Sachs and Arvher, against a scratch team, of whom our 

Club are represented by P. Jolly, T. Child, A. Murray, and 

the energetic Secretary, Arthur Smith. 

«••«•• 

Yesterday the king of the Belgians was thrown from his 
horse, which whs run into by a bicyclist, but his Majesty 
was not hurt. — Globe, Thursday, May 17tL 

The road from Woolwich to Erith was oflicially inspected 
on Tuesday nurning and pronounced to be in excellent 
condition with the exception of one mile in Woolwich. It 
runs along the ridge of a thickly wooded hill, commanding 

extensive and interesting views of the Thames estuary. 

• ••*•• 

Take a friend's advice, and, whatever you do, don't go out 
for a quiet ride with a man who had meant to but didn't 

start for this yt'ar's Trial. 

• * * • • • 

Stephen Smith and Day achieved a best on record on 
Saturday by riding from Blackheath to the Meet at 

Dunstable and back, a distance of ninety miles ! 

• »•••• 

Most conspicuously energetic among the other S.E. 
members who attended the Meet, were Morgan and 
P. B. Smith, who came by road from Sevenoaks, and 
S. E. Whealler, who rode from Croydon, mopt of the way 
with a broken handle-bar. 

It was a pitiable sight to see three men on the way to 
Dunstable deliberately make a funeral pile of themselves 

and their maclraes in trying to turn in a narrow lane. 

• • • ♦ • « ♦ 

To improve the occasion, the Club Scholiast commenced 
the recitation of a parallel passage from the Mantuan Bard 
— re Dido (as our legal friends would have it). • 

PORCUPINB. 

^CHANGE OP ADDRESS. 
W. R. SeweJ, 5, Sheen Villas, Park Road, Richmond. 
District, South West. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributioL^ must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for in. rtion. They must be written on one aide of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuenday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dahlino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Ofiice, 35, Eastcheap, London, E.G.~May 24, 1883. 



Digitized by 



^anhn ^^^^ 

An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VI. No. 13.] ^''™''^?iATigiI/'S2?ei?' Mat 31, 1883. 



OONT 



• PAOS 

Duty 105 

Notices 106 

Saturday Runs 107 

South-East Paperchase 108 

ClubMeeta 108 

Bicyding in Switzerland 108 



NOTIOB. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdas^ 



DUTY. 

Lately we have tried to show some of the Taried duties 
of the Captain and his Committee, and beyond doubt the 
account given must prove that office in the L.B.C. brings 
with it no repose, that atra cura rides behind the Gold 
Badge, and that the disgrace of a failure or the joy of a 
success is shared in by every man, even the least prominent 
on the Committee. But to make a Club pre-eminent, as 
the London should be, more than hard work from its 
officers is wanted. Every Clubman needs to feel that 
his responsibilities are not erased by the Treasurer's receipt 
for his annual subscription. There should be no drones in 
our social hive, nor men who— doing no work themselves — 
have nouglit but criticisms for those who are exerting them- 
selves. However, leaving generalities, it is our task to 
show how the L.B.C. man may, if he has the will, serve his 
Club. Dunstable, with its triple meet, is now a thing of 
the past ; but there still remains certain events in connection 
with which each man has it in his power to lend a hand. 
These are the two Race Meetings at the Crystal Palace — 
one, the match with Oxford on June 13th ; the other, our 
own sports on June 16th. Probably it is known that the 
Palace permits the use of its track on Wednesday, 13th, 
a shilling day, on condition that the Committee purchase 



BNTS. 

PAGE 



All Round the Wheel 110 

Correspondence HI 

QuiUs 112 

Racing Fixtures 112 

Editorial Note 112 

Notice to Correspondents 112 



of the Company at least 100, or £5 worth of tickets. In 
order to recover this amount, it therefore behoves members 
to buy of the Hon. Sec. By so doing they will help 
the Club, though they will themselves reap no special 
benefit. For our own Race Meeting on June 16th, tickets 
may, as has already been announced, be bought of any 
Committeeman for Is. 6d. each, and these admit to the 
Palace and Grounds on what is otherwise a 2s. 6d. day. 
Moreover, in addition to selling tickets, the energetic 
member will himself enter for one or more of the events 
This lie will do pour encourage Us autres, even if not 
himself much of a racing man. Of course we assume that 
his apprenticeship to tumbling has been served ; if other- 
wise, for the sake of others it would be well for him to 
refrain from starting. Then further, he will furnish himself 
with entry forms, and hunt up competitors among his racing 
acquaintances. Much should be done in this direction, 
since there are three or four other meetings on other 
grounds upon the same date as our own. It should be 
noted that the racing variety of the bicycular species is 
somewhat coy, and though yielding readily to an energetic 
canvasser, it needs a good deal of finding out. Suburban 
and Metropolitan Racing Tracks on Saturday afternoons 
form its habitat; and to close with it more eflFectually, one 
of our patriotic members, though himself no racing man, 
is known to have entered for an open handicap of another 
influential Club ;--not unlike the distinguished traveller 
who, at the risk of his life, visited the holy shrine of the 
Prophet with the crowd of Mohammedan pilgrims disguised 



Digitized by 



106 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



after their fashion. Such devotion cannot be expected of 
many ; still, all should recollect that the racing man is of a 
simple, confiding disposition, not always keenly alive to his 
own manifest interests, and should endeavour to convince 
him that these are located on June 16 th at the Crystal 
Palace. 

THE ANNUAL RACE MEETING AT THE CRYSTAL 
PALACE ON SATURDAY, JUNE 16th. 
As the Committee intend to make the Race Meeting a 
success in every way, they trust members will exert them- 
selves vigorously to sell tickets in every direction among 
their friends, remembering that for every ticket sold a 
small profit accrues to the Club. Even those who are not 
specially interested in bicycling may be glad to buy tickets 
when they learn that these can be obtained through our 
Hon. Sec. for Is. 6d. apiece upon what is ordinarily a half- 
crown day. 

By purchasing through this channel a gain of one shilling 
upon each ticket will be effected, and the ticket so obtained 
will admit to the Palace and grounds as well as to our 
Race Meeting. Subjoined is a comparative statement of 
expenses : — 



Ticket of Admission to 
Palace, Oroands, and our 
Race Meeting, if bought 
of the Hod. Sec 

Railway Fare, Ist Class 
Return from London to 
the Palace 

Profit 



1 6 



4 6 



Ticket of Admission to 
Palace, Gronnds, and to 
our Race Meeting, if 
bought at the Palace, 
Railway Stations, or of 
other Agents 

Railway Fare, Ist Claas 
Return from London to 
the Palace 



t. d. 



2 6 

2 
4 6 



ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
This event of the year, as members are already aware, 
takes place on Saturday, 16th June, at 3 p.m. Tickets are 
obtainable from members of the Committee at the reduced 
price of Is. 6d. A free ticket and entry form was sent 
round with the last Gazette, the latter I shall be very 
pleased to receive back filled up for at least the Club Mile. 
The great attraction of this race lies in the fact that three 
ex-Captains of the Club— Messrs. Rucker, Theo. Godlee, 
and Scrutton, have presented the prizes this year, a thing 
that may not again occur in the annals of the Club. Mem- 
bers are urgently requested to make this meeting a success 
in every way ; those who can, b^ getting entries, and every- 
one by selling tickets. E. S. Pbice, Hon. Sec. 



L.B.C. MATCHES WITH THE UNIVERSITIES. 

C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. 
Our Annual Match with the Cambridge University 
Bicyle Club will be held at Cambridge on Saturday, 
June 9th, and will commence at 3 p.m. Competitors 
should leave Liverpool Street Station for Cambridge by the 



11.55 a.m. train. If the weather is favourable I propose 
riding up, and shall be pleased to meet any L.B.C. men 
and their friends who may like to accompany me, and who 
will let me know of their intention not later than Wed- 
nesday, June 6th, by Waltham Cross at 8 a.m. punctually. 

Ashley W. Babrett, Captain. 



O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. 
Our Annual Match with the Oxford University Bicycle 
Club will be held on the Crystal Palace Track on Wednes- 
day, 13th June, at 6 p.m. Tickets are obtainable firom the 
Hon. Sec. at Is. eack Although members do not save 
anything by purchasing them from the Club, they are 
particularly requested to do so, as we have to settle with 
the Crystal Palace Company for one hundred tickets, 
whether used or not. After the Match the competitors 
will dine together in the Palace, and I shall be glad to 
receive the names of any gentlemen (whether members of 
the L.B.C. or hot) who may desire to be present. Names 
should be sent into me not later than Thursday, June 7th, 
in order that the necessary arrangements may be made. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

LAWN TENNIS. 

The following is the result of the drawing, and it is 
hoped that the number of brackets will not confuse the 
competitors (?). 

The first round must be played, and the winners must 
declare themselves by June 23rd (the best out of three sets 
in the first three rounds, the remainder the best out of five 
sets). 

Hewitt's address is 89, Cambridge Gardens, W., all the 
others are in the Blue book. 

Ist 2nd 8rd 4tfa 6th 

Round. Round. Round. Round. Round. 

Hewitt, G..S. . 
Wyndham, W. 
Gruggen, R. M. 
Naylor, H. S. .. 

Powell, J 

Rucker, M. D.. 
Elgood, F. M. .. 
Hindley,E. H.. 
Scrutton, T.E.. 

Lloyd, A 

Potter, L 

Reynolds, H. R 
Herbert, Arthur 
Potter, A' L. 
Beck, G. P. ... 
Scrutton, J. H 
Francis, R.H. M 
Potter, J. F. 
Francis, R G. 

Barker, A 

Herbert, Alfred. 
Sharp, H. N. .. 

Paull, R. J 

A bye. 



} 



A bye 



Wins. 



Digitized by 



Coogle" 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE, 



107 



ROAD TRIAL. 
Notice to Competitors. — Aa timers at Newbury and 
Maidenhead this year are considerably out of pocket through 
expenses incurred by them in providing champaigne, brandy, 
and other refreshments for those riding in the trial, I hope 
none of the latter will fail through forgetfulness to dis- 
charge their obligations. It need not be said that as a 
timer's work is very arduous and responsible, it would be 
most unfair to make him suffer pecuniarly. 

Ashley W. Bakbbtt, Captain^ 

NOTICE.— IMPORTANT. 
L.B.C. Matches with the Universities. 
I shall be glad to receive names of any members who 
may be willing to ride for our Club in either of the above. 

Ashley W. Babkett, Captain. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
26th May. It was not a pleasing prospect, and the 
District has rather a habit of resting after an effort such as 
the Dunstable run, so that the D.C. and Lloyd were hardly 
surprised to find themselves alone at the Comer. Very 
soon after the start it began to rain, and it did not see its 
way to leave off. James's Lane, The Flats, and East Ham 
was the route adopted, and Woolwich was reached con- 
siderably under the hour. Some delay was caused by 
waiting for the ferry, and Stephen Smith was in attendance 
on the other side. The road to Erith may fairly be con- 
sidered the best bit of riding the N.E. have yet had in the 
big District; there is one big hill and a mile or two of 
tram lines in the six miles, but taken for all in all it 
is good. As for the views of the Thames I^tuary, 
the little District took them on trust — they were not 
visible with the naked eye. At Erith, Weeks and 
Amott were waiting, and the visitors felt relieved ; 
and when by and by the Captain turned up there was a 
feeling that five was not a contemptible turn out for the 
weather. Tea was prepared for forty and was about as 
good as they build them, indeed, the " Cross Keys " has 
been made a note of for future use. Just as we were 
beginning, the S.E. D.C. came in and completed the party. 
The five North-Easters returned together by the ferry in 
decided rain, and made Woolwich by daylight with the 
assistance of S. P. Smith. Present : — ^Arnott, Ashley W. 
Barrett, Lloyd, Weeks, and 

Theo. Oodles, District Captain. 

S.W. District. 
So far as I can learn, few members of the S.W. seem to 
have taken advantage of the pleasant programme carefully 
prepared for them for Saturday in the unavoidable absence, 
at the last moment, of the D.C. It is true to say that the 
day was overcast, and at times even moist, but this of 



course will not be regarded as the real reason for so very 
small an attendance; perhaps the double tricycle did 
start for Iver, bat as we have had no account of its arrival, 
or any details of the journey, we have our misgivings on 
this point, and look forward with anxiety to the publication 
of our next issue. This unaccountable lack of information 
up to the present time, and the difficulty combined with 
the improbability of obtaining any reliable facts in con- 
nection with the District's doings on Saturday last, leads 
me to hope — in the unlikely event of my being absent 
again -*tbat in future members will ''combine" to carry 
out the " official " run, and to give an interesting account 
of their proceedings. I am prompted to make this request, 
since it has come to my knowledge that the impressive 
effect produced upon one of our members who attended our 
recent Northern General Meet was so great that he ignored 
our shorter District run to Iver, and rode again to St. Albans 
and Dunstable on Saturday. No doubt this enthusiasm 
should be commended, and even encouraged, but in con- 
sequence of this fact the notion suggests itself that perhaps 
others, fascinated by some of our meeting places nearer 
home and \>y acting on similar impulses, have gratified 
their respective inclinations and neglected the interests of 
their District. 

Next Saturday the run is to Shepperton, and the meet 
at Kingston Station at 4.30 p.m., when I hope that we 
shall have a good muster. As the evenings are long and 
the distance to Shepperton short there will be ample time 
for a row on the river either before or after tea. 

B. M. Gruqgen, District Captain. 



S.E. District. 
Beneath a leaden sky and a soaking rain the D.C. left 
home on Saturday in the hopes of meeting one or two 
daring spirits on Hayes Common. After a miserable half 
hour spent in anxiously waiting for what came not among 
the dripping oaks and hawthorns, he made tho best of 
rather an unpleasant ride through the Cray Valley to Erith, 
and arrived at the "Cross Ke3's" just as Stephen Smith 
and five of the N.E., who had braved the weather, were 
setting down to tea. After a sumptuous repast, worthy of 
a better day, and as much jollity as may be supposed to 
prevail generally among half-drowned rats, the party broke 
up, and the homeward journey was made under auspices 
not much more favourable than those attending the outward 
run. Present : S. P. Smith, and 

B. G. Frai^ois, District Captain. 

W. C. Oswald and Wigan also came to the starting point, 
but did not persevere in following out the whole run. 

MEET AT ERITH. 
As I seem to have been the only member who attended 
this Meet, I suppose it is my duty to send you a short 
account of it. I started from the Crystal Palace about 



Digitized by 



108 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



3.30 and rode to Locks Bottom, hoping to meet the 
Blackheath and Croydon Divisions at that place ; not seeing 
anyone, and being far too wet to stand about doing nothing, 
I rode on to Erith. The ride would have been agreeable 
enough had it not been for the jokes of sundry people on 
the state of my back, which would have done very well to 
grow mustard and cress on, or any other small vegetables 
not requiring a great depth of soil. I also suffered from 
another cause, and that was the conviction which began 
to creep over me as I got farther on my way that I was 
rather foolish to start ; and the farther I rode, the firmer 
this idea rooted itself in my mind. On arriving at the 
" Prince of Wales Hotel " I was met by the landlady, who 
looked very serious, and who wished to know " why I had 
not sent a telegram to say the Club was coming?" Tea for 
thirty men had been prepared and laid out — she was much 
annoyed at not having received notice as promised," etc. etc. 
It seems, a gentleman from Blackheath had ridden over on 
Wednesday evening to make arrangements for tea, promising 
faithfully to telegraph on Saturday morning whether the Meet 
would be held or not. Of course I pleaded ignorance, and 
got away from her ladyship by saying I must change my 
clothes, at the same time promising to eat the thirty teas 
should the other men not arrive. Having put on some 



dry togs I had bought in the town, I set to work to feed, 
and can honestly assure you I never had a more satisfactory 
meal. After a sm4ke and a chat with the landlady's son 
(who was kind enough to lend me a good overcoat to travel 
home in), I bethought myself of getting home. It was 
quite out of the question trying to ride, for I could not get 
the saddle far enough back to permit of my mounting — 
bear in mind the thirty teas that had to be made room for. 

In conclusion, allow me to say I was treated most kindly 
at the hotel. I trust we may have a good Meet there 
ere long — we are sure to be made comfortable. — ^Yours 
faithfully, Chas. £. Parkeb. 

SOUTH-EAST PAPERCHASE. 
The Captain has signified his intention of joining our 
Annual Paperchase next Saturday, so it is to be hoped we 
shall have a fine day and a iine attendance. The Croydon 
Division will leave the Fire Station at 4.30 for Sanderstead, 
and the hares. Barker and Wyndham, will start from the 
Church at five o'clock punctually. We shall have tea at the 
" Glyn Arms," Ewell, at half-past six, and I hope anyone 
who is too late or does not care for the Paperchase will 
meet us at tea there. 

B. G. Francis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



D»te. N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.£. 

Croydon Diyision. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division 


1 Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
9 J and Sybom's Corner 
i ] 8.45, for Hablow. 

" i 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
CasUe" for Chb- 

MIBS. 


Saremake Cottage, 
MiU HiU Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
Chbmibs, '* Bed- 
ford," vta Hare- 
field. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Shbppxb- 

TON. 


PArBBOHASB.— Sandentead. 
Meet 5.0. 


Tliea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
^ ) and Sybom's Comer 
1 \ 8.45, for Black- 

^ 1 XOBI. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for WH&iX- 
BAicrsiiAD. 


Saveraake Cottage, 
Mill HUl Road, 
Acton, 8.15, for 
LsiTH Hill. 


Kingston Station^ 
4.0, for East Gaiv- 
8TIAD. MeetS.E. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Bait Orwstiad. 
Meet S.W. 


8.80, Old Lewisham 
Church, for East 
Obinstead. Meet 
S.W. 



June 16.— ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(CONTIHrXD FBOM PAOB 79.) 

§ 19. — Zurich to JSimiedeln and Egeri, and hach 

This would be too long a round to make without loco- 
motive help. It is tlierefore best to take the train to 
EinsiedelD. We left by the first train from Enge (at 5.30), 
getting to Wadenschwyl (or WadensM?^«7, as you will find it 
and similar terminations sometimes spelt) at 6.20. Here 
you have to wait till 7.40, giving you nice time for break- 
fast at the " Engel " hard by. The railway to Einsiedeln is 
a continuous incline, and the engine pushes you up : hence 
from the end of the leading carriage you get an unimpeded 



view of the scenery in front of you, and can enjoy it in its 
own bright pure morning atmosphere undimmed by smoke 
and without ai^ riek of getting hot cinder dust in your 
eyes. It makes one think of the enjoyments in store for us 
when trains in general are driven by electricity instead of 
steam. The question of whether it is worth your while 
visiting Einsiedeln or not must be settled by a reference to 
Baedeker : if not, you will leave the train at Biberbruck, the 
station short of it. The road from Einsiedeln to Biberbruck, 
though slightly down hill, is not in very good condition, and 
I think some of the lay brethren of the monastery might 
turn their attention to it with advantage. The following 
will be your itineracy starting from Einsiedeln. 



Coogle 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



109 



Height. 
Feet. 
2900 

2780 

8000 

2700 

2870 

1855 

1450 

1760 

2250 

1850 

1850 



Distance. 
MOes. 



4 
8J 

Hi 

ISi 

26 

27 

80i 

84 

88i 

48 



BiberbixLck. 

Bothenthurm. 

Sattel. 

Egeri (Unter). 

Zug. 

Baar. 

Sihlbrugg. 

Top of the PaBB (Hizzel). 

Horgen. 

Zurich. 



At Biberbruck you cross two streams and the railway, 
and then turn to your left up on to the moors ; there is at 
least one bit of stiff hill to encounter, before you reach the 
highest point. At Altmatt, about two miles on, and again 
at Rothenthunn, you will meet with an unusal obstruction 
in these parts in the shape of a gate across the road — not a 
toll gate, but a parish gate dividing the pasturages and 
kept closed on account of the cattle, after the manner 
of the gates on the principal upland roads in Wales 
and in our English Lake district. It is no earthly use 
your expecting the natives to open the gate for you; 
they never seem to be capable under these circumstances 
of doing more than one thing at a time, and that one 
is staring in abject astonishment at you and your 
bicycle. You had better make up your mind to dis- 
mount at once. There is a delightful descent all the 
way down to Sattel, where you will have to double back 
again a bit to your right, unless you are lucky enough to 
observe a short cut. As you approach Sattel, the road 
forks ; the right hand road leads up into the village— you 
keep on the lower one. After this you had better refer to 
your map, or a villager, if you feel uncertain, for the way 
to Egeri (the native pronunciation will be A Agerry — hard g). 
About l\ mile beyond the spot where you double back, 
the road enters a little cutting and then goes down hill 
(tortuous and steep) ; this we found stoned and requiring 
great care, but afterwards the road is very good, and it is 
a lovely ride all along the Lake of Egeri. This lake, which 
lies 1000 feet higher than its bigger neighbours of Lucerne, 
Zug, and Zurich, is a spot seldom, if ever, visited by the 
tourist. It lies completely oflf any known coach route, has 
no railway near it, and obtains the most scanty and 
parenthetical mention in Baedeker. We certainly saw it 
to great advantage on a perfectly stiU bright morning, with 
the snow peaks (visible in the distance over the head of it) 
glistening with a fresh fall during the night ; we thought it 
one of the sweetest scenes we had seen as we rode by, and 
wondered why it was so little known. But a still greater 
surprise was in store for us in the view from the brow of 
the hill, just before commencing the long descent to Zug. 
This fairly took our breath away. The road was good— 
z'gzags, but not too steep — and we were enabled to enjoy it 
to the full as we spun down it. You should hold well back 
on the sharp pitch just entering Zug. as you will have to 



dismount at the comer for paving. Between Baar and 
Sihlbrugg they were altering the levels in a few places, 
necessitating a dismount. At Sihlbrugg, after crossing the 
bridge, you keep to the right — alongside of the river — and 
you have a continuous hill of about three miles of moderate, 
not excessive steepness, somewhere about 1 in 20. It was 
one of the very few really hot days we had this summer in 
Switzerland, and we were content with riding two out of 
the three. The 4^ miles downhill to Horgen is excellent 

An expedition to the Lake of Egeri might be very well 
made from Lucerne, either (a) by taking the lefthand fork 
between Artli and Goldau (see § 14), leading up by Steinen 
to Sattel, or (6) by taking the early boat to Brunnen and 
riding by Schwyz and the Schlagstrasse to Sattel. From 
Zug you could return to Lucerne, either by the lake or by 
Bothkreuz (see § 13). 

§ 20. — Glarus, Elm, and lAnththaL 

This is an expedition in which you will have to avail 
yourself of the train, and also send a bag for sleeping out. 
We left Enge (Zurich)at 5.30and gotout at Schwanden — the 
point where the two valleys of the Sernf and the Linth unite. 
Here we breakfasted at the Adier," and saw our trout 
caught for us in the fish tank whilst we were giving our 
bicycles their morning oil. Do not order tea — ^like the 
famous green cheese of the valley, it is strongly meliloted. 
The bill was, I thought, higher than it should have been at 
such an inn, and another time I shall try breakfasting at 
the railway station, which is handier. After the first 
three-quarters of a mile, the road from Schwanden (1720 
feet) up the Sernf valley to Elm is a continual mount (1 in 
20) nearly as far as (5 miles) Engi (2550 feet), then fairly 
level to (7 miles) Matt (2720), when you have a further 
gradual mount of three miles to Elm (3175). What portion 
of this ten miles you can accomplish in the saddle must 
depend entirely on the condition of the roads. In this 
district they are mended with the slatier forms of limestone, 
and whilst in wet weather they are like so much glue, they 
are when dry (yet not too dry) the most lovely surface 
conceivable, so firm and yet so soft and even. This season, 
I fear, glue has prevailed ; it was, in full tenacity the day 
we were there, and I do not think we rode more than four 
of the ten miles at the outside. The descent, again, owing 
to the extremely yielding and viscous character of the 
mud — ^which let you form a rut and held you there — was 
also a troublesome business, requiring extra caution, though 
we managed to accomplish it within the hour. Elm is the 
scene of the great landslip of September in last year (1882), 
full accounts of which, with pictorial illustrations, appeared 
in all the English papers at the time. It is certainly on a 
large scale, and a most sad and terrible spectacle of destruc- 
tion ; but the newspaper descriptions had led us to antici- 
pate something of far vaster and more appalling dimensions 
than it really possesses, and though of course we were glad 



Google 



Digitized by 



110 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



in one sense that the scene of havoc should be found to be 
less extensive than one had imagined, we were undoubtedly 
disappointed with its character and extent, and I should 
think that it is hardly a tenth of the size of the Goldau 
landslip (see § 14). It is, however, probably one of the 
biggest, if not the biggest, Bergfall that has happened since 
that on the Rossberg. Entering the Linththal again at 
Schwanden, we pursued our way up the valley to Stachel- 
berg — a big hotel and bath establishment, close to the 
terminus station of the Linththal railway— where we were 
to slee^ the night. It had been our intention after lunch 
to ride further up the valley as far as the road goes — some 
six miles higher up — for the sake of the views of the Todi, 
etc., but the incessant rain prevented it. However, we had 
seen enough of the valley both from the train and from the 
saddle to appreciate its intense loveliness, and I should 
certainly, another time, leave the train earlier (at Nafels), so 
as thoroughly to enjoy the beauty of it. We rode dotvn it the 
next day, but there are limits to your power of constantly 
craning your neck round to look at the view behind 
you when 3rou are riding a bicycle, and nothing but a 
ride up the whole length of the valley on a fine day 
can give you an adequate notion of it. The ride 
back again to Zurich is for the most part downhill or- 
level. Tou should remember to bear to the left-hand side 
of the valley at Nettstall where the road divides. You 
cannot well go wrong elsewhere. I append the distances 
from the Hotel Todi, the highest point of road in the 
valley. 



Height 


Distance. 




Feet 


IfilBB. 




2665 ... 




... Hotel Todi. 


2260 ... 


... 4 ... 


... Linththal. 


2180 ... 


... 6 ... 


... Stadbelberg. 


1910 ... 


... 8 ... 


... Betaohwanden. 


1790 ... 


... 94 ... 


... Luchmngen. 


1710 ... 


... 12i ... 


... Schwanden. 


1680 ... 


... 14 ... 


... Mitlodi. 


1490 ... 


... 16J ... 


... Glarus. 


1460 ... 


... 181 ... 


... Nettstall. 


1460 ... 


... 21 ... 


... Nafelfl. 


1580 ... 


... 281 - 


... Nieder-Umen. 


1680 ... 


... 26 .. 


... Bilten. 


1440 ... 


... 29 ... 


... Beichenburg. 


1850 ... 


... 861 ... 


... Lachen 


1870 ... 


... S9i ... 


... Pfaffikon (see § 18). 


1860 ... 


... 61 ... 


... Zurich. 



Glarus is paved, but rideable. The inhabitants of the 
valley are an enterprising race ; they use their streams not 
only for irrigating the fields that feed the cows, that give 
the milk, that makes the cheese they season with melitot, 
but also for turning the wheels that work the looms, that 
make the silks, that garnish the windows of the wonderful 
shop that Mr. Henneberg has just built close to the Baur 
au Lac at Zurich. On our way down the valley, on passing 
through one of these thriving villages, we overtook a posse 
of factory girls marching to work linked arm in arm, two 
deep, in rows extending over the whole breadth of the road. 



We did not ring our bells till we got just up behind them, 
when we suddenly gave full tongue. Such a stampede and 
screaming I never saw or heard before. They flew asunder 
as if a shell had burst among them, and cackled away like 
a brood of chickens into which a fox had sprung. 

" They vanish'd panic-striken, like a shoal 
Of darting fish, that on a summer mom 
Adown the crystal dykes at Oamelot 
Come slipping o'er their shadows on the sand ; 
But if a man who stands upon the brink 
But lift a shining hand against the sun. 
There is not left the twi^e of a fin 
Betwixt the cressy islets white in flower." 

The effect of this scatteration was so irrepressibly ludicrous, 
that for hours afterwards one or other of us would burst out 
mechanically into sudden spasms of laughter, and to the 
anxious inquiry " What was he laughing at ? " would come 
the invariably reply, " Oh ! those girls at Luchsingen." 
Even at this distance of time, and under the sobering in- 
fluences of Alma Mater, I can scarcely hold my pen as I 
write these lines and feel incipient vibrations of laughter 
simmering up inside me. 

Running parallel with the Glarus Valley, some thirty 
miles east of it, is the valley of the Rhine, leading to 
Ragatz and Chur and the many diverging passes beyond. 
We bad not time to investigate this valley on wheels, 
and it could of course only be made the scene of a 
bicycle expedition from Zurich by sleeping, out. We went 
over, however, by train one wet day to see the Gorge of 
Ffaefiers, quite one of the most interesting scenes in 
Switzerland. We observed that the roads were like those 
in the Glarus Valley — excellent in not too dry weather, but 
gluey in wet. The road from Ragatz up to Ffaefiers, though 
narrow, would be when in the right condition one of the 
most delightful bits of riding possible ; it is so well 
engineered, and so admirably taken care ot The Lake of 
Wallenstadt (considered by many the most picturesque of 
all Swiss lakes), which you pass in the train, is unfortu- 
nately not yet accessible on a bicycle. They are making 
roads at different places, but I fear they will require several 
seasons' use before they are fit for our purpose, as the trafiic 
is inconsiderable. 

August, 1882. Ge&aiud F. Cobb. 

(To be continued.) 

ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
Having two Race Meetings ^nd the Barnes Tricycle Meet 
on Saturday last the clerk of the weather should have been 
on his best behaviour^ instead of which he was in sulks of 
the most objectionable description. The West Kent Races, 
at the Falace, took place before about 150 spectators, who 
were as enthusiastic as possible under the circumstances. 
The only cheerful persons were the ducks, who flapped about 
the track in the most festive manner. 

Some idea of the state of the track can be gathered from 
the fact that Buckley at scratch, with a handicap made for 



Coogle" 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Ill 



2.49y did not do better than 8.7, and after the first two or 
three heats, i.e., as soon as the path became cut up, no heat 
was run under 3 minutes. 

The L.B.G. were well represented with Buckley (scratch), 
W. K. (15) and P. L. Adam (25), Wyndham (60), Beck 
(65), and C. A. Brown (85), while Jephson and H. R. Rey- 
nolds were on the ground. Unfortunately the weather put 
the back mark men out of it, and Buckley was the only one 
of our men who struggled into the second round. The only 
consolation for the scratch men in each heat was that they 
came in with clean faces, whereas the front men were one 
mass of cinder splashes from each other's hind wheels. 

Hay (85), who won the Surrey Mile, Wilson (75), of the 
Surrey, and Scott of the Lee B.C., 140 yards, were most 
&ncied in tiie second round ; they all met in the first heat, 
and a splendid race resulted in Hay's winning by about a 
yard from McEinlay (60), Wilson being close up. Buckley 
won the second heat pretty easily. 

The final, however, was set a little too soon after the 
second round, and though Buckley came magnificently in 
the last lap, he could only get second place, three yards be- 
hind Wilson, while McEinlay was third, a foot behind him. 

Time 3min. 6isec. 

• ♦ • • • • 

The Invitation Tricycle Race (One Mile)— in the final of 
which the Committee actually started three men, with a 
reckless disregard of the penalty attaching to manslaughter, 
— ^was won easily by Letchford, Radford of the L.B.G. and 
L.T.G. being second. 

The Invitation Bicycle Race (Three Miles) brought out 
a small field, Buckley, W. E. and F. L. Adam, throwing 
away moral certainties, and leaving Wyndham to represent 
the Club. The other starters were Thoinpson (Sutton), 
Tacagni (Canonbury), Vesey (Surrey), and McEinlay 
(Beckenham). Owing to the bad state of the track the 
time was very slow; Wyndham lay behind till the bell 
rang, and then, coming away in the old style, won all out 
by nearly thirty yards in 10 min. 47| sec. Needless to say 

" the victory was very popular." 

• ♦ • * • • 

At Stamford Bridge there was a Mile Handicap, the 
heats in which were won by Milner (scratch), Medcalf (60), 
and Thorn (70), Medcalf winning the final pretty easily 
from Milner in 3 min. 1} sec. ; Mihier's time of a shade 

over 3 min. 2 sec. is very good for the course and the day. 

• ••••• 

Oaskell had entered at the Pakce, but went down to 
Birmingham without success. I hear he has entered for 

our Races on the 16th. 

• •••«* 

The Cambridge trials were postponed on Saturday " owing 
to damp." 

Before the next number is out the Inter- Varsity will be 
over, and though the racing should be very exciting — the 



meeting of Whatton and Buckley especially so— I think 

that Oxford will probably avenge the beatings of the last 

three years. As usual, nearly all the competitors will be 

L.B.C. men. 

• « • ' « « • 

Day will ride for Cambridge, but D. R. Smith wiU be 
unable to ride for Oxford owing to "Exams."; W. E. 
Adam will ride for Oxford. 

Nixon has accepted Lowndes' challenge for 100 miles, 
when some good times ought to be done. 

The Front Wheel Hub. 



€oxxtBpoxtbtnct. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
SiB, — As I find on carefully reading " Dodo's " spirited 
impeachment of the lazy friend that I fill the bill in every 
particular, except perhaps the disinclination to get up, I 
rush into print in defence of the noble army of potterers in 
response to the editorial hint. Our firiend " Dodo " appa- 
rently belongs to the I-will-get-there-or-break-a-suspender 
contingent, and maps out a tour from A to B irrespective 
of wind, weather, views, or objects of interest, and, fixing 
his cap firmly on his head, starts ofif determined to do and 
dare all that doth become a member of the L.B.C, The 
probability is that he will get there, even if he has to go on 
one leg, and verily he has his reward, for of such are Bath 
medallists made. But are the whole pleasures of bicycling 
to be compressed in getting there, or wrecking your hosiery 
in the attempt ! Apart from the pleasure that a man who 
is fit always feels in doing his level best, is not some of the 
pleasure prospective in being able to come home and play 
at Ananias with the other fellows about the headwinds you 
had and the hills you rode ? Any delay on the road, or a 
range of hiUs to be surmounted, causes anguish to the soul, 
because it reduces the record. Not so the potterer ; he is 
sublimely indifferent alike to time and distance. The hill 
has no terrors, because it promises a view, which taken in 
connection with a pipe prospectively fills his soul with 
peace, and he grinds up the hill cheerfully in anticipation 
of the promised rest. Many similar comparisons might be 
made, but they will only emphasise the indisputable fact 
expressed by "Dodo," that if the hare and the tortoise 
start on a tour together there will probably be trouble. 
But it can be looked at from both the hare's and the tor- 
toise's point of view ; and I can sympathise with "Dodo's" 
companion, who must have been temporarily a sort of 
bicycling "Jo ".in a perpetual state of being moved on. 
In conclusion, be not too rough on the lowly potterer, ye 
Scorchers, for he has his mission ; he pays his subscription,' 
gangs his ain gait, and enjoys himself and Nature according 
to his lights ; and often when placidly puffing his pipe in 
the shady nook or on the grassy bank he will discuss your 
doughty deeds on path and road, take pride in them as a 
fellow member, and ask no more than to bask undisturbed 
in the light of your reflected glory. — ^Yours, etc., 

W. R. Sbwell. 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



QUILLS. 

" AriBtotle And Pliny detiver it that the porpentine casteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himselfi but Dioecorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to belieye it."^ir T. Bbowns. 

One of the features of next winter is to be " Readings 
from the Works of Thackeray, by W. W." It was 

" the Ladies' Prize." 

• «k • • • • 

I should have thought the second prize would have suited 
" our popular member " better : — " Wedded, by Sir Francis 
Leighton." It would be followed, of course, by " Wedded, 
by the Archbishop of Canterbury," or some other high 
dignitary. 

One of our most prominent University members is oflf for 

the Antipodes two days before our Annual Race Meeting ! 

Opinion is divided as to whether he should be adjured by 

all he holds most dear to charter a special steamer (which 

certainly would be rather dear), or whether he shall be 

arrested on the day of departure, and let out on bail to 

ride for the Ladies' Challenge Cup. 

«••#•« 

I hope some of our members will ride down to Cambridge 

on Saturday week to see the Inter-Club Match. Here is 

a chance for our crack District (need I say I allude to 

the N.E.) : let them fix their Meet to Cambridge, and they 

will probably beat record. They can go via Chelmsford. 

• ••••• 

Well ! after Erith, I think the S.R had better abdicate. 
A district half their size, wliich has to cross the river to 
get at them, turns out more than double the number of 
their men present, /think the S.E. are rather butterflies. 

Why is the S.E. D.C. after me with a big stick ? Where 

is a convenient hole ? 

• ••••• 

The Cyclist of last week commits itself to the statement 
that the Bath Trial has never been done under ten hours 

with a head wind ! What about Walmsley's year ? 

• • • . • • • 

Up to this date our men have won eight prizes this year ; 
viz., four firsts, and four seconds. Buckley has taken two, 
and Wyndham, Leeds, Radford, W. K Adam, A. B. W. 

Whatton, and J. R. Walter one each. 

• ***•• 

I am told by a North-Easter that the scenery between 
Woolwich and Erith was as pretty as could be expected, 
considering the view was limited to 200 yards, and the 
falling rain only enabled it to be seen through half-shut 
eyes. 

• • * «^ • • 

Under the heading " Prospective Tours" in the last issue 
of the C»T.C. Gazette there appears the following: — 
"A Quiet Spin. Companion Walited. Average per day 
120 miles, etc." Riddle— If this is a " quiet spin," what is 
a scorch ? " 

• ••«*• 

" On revient tavjours d, son premier amcury I am glad 
to see that two of our older memoers, Gerard Smith and 
H. S. Naylor, after sundry coquettings with extras and 



tricycles have come back once more to the genuine article, 
in the shape of the ordinary bicycle. 

Saturday's rain wa^ enough to damp anything— except, 
of course, the energy of a D.C. 

HtJNTiNa ApponrpMBNTS. 
Saturday, 2nd June. Sanderstead, five o'clock, opening 
meet of the Croydon Harriers. 

• • • * * * . . 

Hares are very strong in this locality, and anyone wishing 

for a good afternoon's sport cannot do better tlian try his 
fortune with this crack pack. 

Try as he would the Editor could not conceal his indig- 
nation last Saturday when an enterprising gentlemen asked 
him to race at Willesden, mistaking him for a prominent 
Eastern counties' flyer. Poroupinb. 



RACING FIXTURES. 



Bule 40 enacts that no mdmber represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the CapUin. The f oUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

June 2.— Surrey United at Crystal Palace. 

2. — Anfield B.C. Sports at Liverpool 

5. — Inter-University Races at Oxford. 

9 —Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 

9.— .C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
11.— C.U.Bi.O. Club Races, Cambridge. 
13.— O.U.BiC. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
16.— London B.C. Races at Ciystal Palace. 
16.— Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
19.— University College Hospital at Stamford 
Bridge. 

23.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapbam B.C. at Crystal Palace. 

30. —.Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birmingham. 
80. — A. A. A. Championships atLillie Bridge. 
30.— Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 



Editorial Note.— We regret that at the time of going to 
press no* account of the W. and N.W. runs have been 
received. 



CHANGE OE ADDRESS. 
H. C. Pigott, Gunnersbury, W. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributionB must be addressed to The Editor, L.B.O. Cassette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necesBarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuewd ay evening. 

Printed for the Proprietoi-s by Darling & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, E\stcheap, London, E.C.— May 81, 1883. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MmAm 





An Ojsticial Kecobd op the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 14.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' 
[AU rights reserved.] 



HALL. 



June 7, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



Your Friends 

Committee 

NotioeB 

Saturday Runs 

ClubMeeto 

Bicyding in Switzerland 



PAOB 

113 
114 
114 
115 
117 
117 



All Round the Wheel 

The Inter-IJniyeraity Bicycle Races 

Quills 

Annual Race Meeting — Comparatiye Statement 

Racing Fixtures 

Notice to Correspondents 



PAOB 

118 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



YOUR FRIENDS. 
(In answer to " Our Enemies.") 
Many thanks, most worthy Editor, for your courteous 
challenge. Tou have so spurred the sides of my feeble 
Pegasus with your " timid hints " that I must give him a 
. h'ttle exercise ; but as he will be rather heavily weighted 
with a few hard truths, his wings must be bound to keep 
him from soaring to realms of rhyme and sentiment, and 
ve will trot together on' the high road of common sense. 
Tou seem to look upon us as the most dangerous enemies 
of the L.B.C. Let us see if we deserve this character. 
(Happy thought !— as I am writing as the Championess of 
Woman, why not adopt the editorial "we," and drop the 
egotistical " I ? ") Even the " hardest and sternest riders," 
be they married or be they single, must, as years roll on, 
lose strength and taste for Club Races, Runs, and Teas. 
The sound of the race bell will not raise their pulses by 
one beat, and the glorious excitement of the last lap, with 
the spurt up the straight as rider after rider is overhauled, 
and the white tape marked first by their victorious wheel, 
can be theirs no more. But, shall the names which once 
rang through the air ring only in memory, and shall old 
friends of the L.fi.C. gaze down the Race Programme seeing 
there naught familiar? Let us look forward but a few 



years, and may we not hope for such a scene as this? 
A crowded Race Meeting of the L.B.C. The grand stand 
filled with ladies. We notice very many familiar faces — 
many looking more matronly than in 1883, and all with 
anxious eyes fixed on the course. A pistol is fired, and 
we, too, turn our eyea But what is this! The field 
looks as if we were gazing through the large end of a 
lorgnette ! Little feet and legs move little treadles, and 
tiny machines move swiftly along. The bell rings, and two 
or three small forms draw away in front. Then with a 
dreamy feeling we hear again the names familiar to us in 
past years shouted by bass voices, and even echoed by 
treble, and then amidst cheers from the one and sometliing 
like happy tears firom the other the first London Bicycle 

Club Boys' Race is won by ; but here our prophecy 

must end. Doth not a future like this make amends for 
the present irregular attendance of a few " hard and stem 
riders?" 

We will answer "timid hint" No. 1 by another 
" medical axiom," given to those suffering from disease of 
the heart— avoid woiry and excitement. To show this 
answer is applicable we must diagnose the special form of 
heart disease of which this article treats. We would refer 
you to Dr. Quain's Dictionary of Medicine^ but although 
no less than eighty pages are given up to various disorders 
and diseases of the heart, he does not mention that special 
one called Love. One of the first symptoms is a curious 
softening and tenderness, often accompanied by palpitation 
when the exciting cause of the malady is present. This 



Digitized by 



Google 













— 




tenderness causes a feeling of cLivalrous respect towards all 
women. (Be it known I treat only of the true disease, and 
not of any of the many spurious forms which are, alas, too 
often mistaken for it.) The sufferer feels as if the world 
and all things in it were better and brighter than he 
thought before. He becomes so sensitive that he cannot 
bear that anyone should guess from what he is sufifering, 
and looks upon his heart as a shrine enclosing the secret 
from all prying eyes. Solitude indeed has charms for such 
a sufferer. The treatment should be as gentle as po&sible, 
and when the fever has reached its height either the tonic of 
acceptance or the corrective of refusal will work the only cure. 
The heart will then resume i^s proper action, especially if 
treated with the tonic, and the patient will again become 
companionable, but with a brightness added to his whole life. 

Now we would ask you if that treatment is followed 
by the L.B.C. ; would it not rather be of this kind ? The 
patient is persuaded to come for a Saturday run, and no 
sooner are they fairly off than a fire of chaff is opened upon 
him, and his sacred secret (as he has fondly imagined it) 
dragged from its retreat and held up as a target for all to 
practise upon. Tennis, the river (moonlight included), and 
we weak women are not such deadly foes as that systematic 
chaff so much indulged in. Will the Club Scholiast tell us 
from what the word is derived? We read in times of 
famine that bread has been made of chaff, but not enjoyed 
with an appetite, as it was apt to stick in the throat. 
Believe us, so does very, much of the verbal chaff. To the 
professional chaffer (surely one / would express the name 
better) nothing is sacred, and in one evening he hurts more 
feelings and causes more irritation than a bad-tempered 
man would do in a week. With the latter it is easy to 
think it is only his affliction, or to shut him up in any way 
most effectual. But who can shut up the chaffer ? Most 
sensitive people would rather receive a good blow than be 
tormented by a swarm of midges, and to nothing is the 
chaffer more like than these tormenting little insects. Of 
course we do not mean to say all chaff is to be censured, 
as when occasional and good tempered, and not upon 
tender subjects, it is often amusing. But we women think 
no one ought to be chaffed about us, as we are certainly 
tender subjects, and when we sometimes hear what has 
been said about our friends, we cannot tell when 
it may be our turn to suffer in a like manner. It would be 
as well to try and stop this particular form of chaff, before 
ordering a Club Sociable. 

And now for a few words as to another foe which 
keeps some men from joining ours, I beg pardon, your 
ranks. It is the continual cycling talk both in and out 
of season. Horsey men are not always horsey, and 
vaCutsmen can fiqa flnmp rkfVioi* hnVkViv fitA^i 

jnwuvDUAi^u vrou OUlUc UhllvL UODOy bUaU XuQ WaVCS, 

but to very many cyclists all things are cycling (a new 
word). We would not dare mention such a very tender 
subject, had we not so very often heard this particular trait 


remarked upon. It is to be hoped the proposed Search 
Committee will not make the " Scientific Analysis of the 
Influence of Woman" too superficial.. We all like to feel 
our influence, but not only on tennis ground, rivers or waxed 
floor. We are almost as a body friends to bicycling, and in 
fact all outdoor sport, and though sometimes we may feel 
Saturdays a little dull, and have more than our share of 
doctoring cuts, sprains, and gravel rash, and seeing to coats 
and knicks, yet better ten thousand times to know Our Boys 
are amongst green fields on the rolling wheels, than to fear 
they are spending their time in other and far more dangerous 
ways. You may think I have taken a more serious view of 
this subject than necessary, but I shall not have written in 
vain if I induce one or two of you to look upon us not as 
your enemies but your friends. A. W. Oman. 

COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 
4th instant, the following gentlemen were elected members 
of the Club 

Name and Address. Proposer. Seconder. 

John Dixon Butler, 11, Bedcli£fe 

Gardens, S.W W. Wyndham. 0. Thorn. 

Llewellyn H&rtridge, Hillside, 

Park HiU Boad, Croydon A. Barker. B. G. Francis. 

Gordon, C. Larkworthy, 86, Bel- 
size Avenue, N.W C. TuUoch. 0. L. HilL 

Messrs. H. G. A. Brown, G. P. Coleman, Theo. Godlee, 
S. P. Smith, and W. A. Smith were appointed delegates of 
the Club on the l^icycle Union for the present year. 

E. S. PaiCB, Hon. Sec. 

ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
One Mile Clab Handicap. 
Two Miles Scratch for Ladies' Challenge. 
Two Miles Open Handicap. 
Five Miles Open Scratch. 
Ten Miles District Challenge (no entrance fee). 
Entries close on this Saturday, 9th instant. Entrance 
fee for the first four events 2s. 6d. each. 

Tickets are obtainable from members of the Committee 
or myself, admitting to the Palace and Grounds for the 
whole of the day, at the reduced price of Is. 6d. 

E. S. Pbiob, Hon. Sec. 

L.B.C. MATCHES WITH THE UNIVERSITIES. 

C.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. 
Our Annual Match with the Cambridge University 
Bicyle Club will be held at Cambridge on Saturday, 
June 9th, and will commence at 3 p.m. Competitors 
should leave Liverpool Street Station for Cambridge by the 
11.55 a.m. train. If the weather is favourable I propose 
riding up, and shall be pleased to meet any men by 
Waltbam Cross at 8 a.m. punctually, if I hear of their 
intention to ride down by 5 p.m. on Friday. 

AsHLET W. Barrett, Captain. 













Digitized by LjOOQIC 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



115 



CAMBRIDGE BIATCH. 
We understand that the L.B.C. team against Cambridge 
will probably be made up as follows : — 

1 Mfo.— F. L. Adam, J. D, Butler, W. Wyndham. 
4 Miles.— F. L. Adam, G. F. Beck, J. D. Butler. 
15 Miles.— W. Wyndham, H. R. Reynolds, M. H. Jephson. 

O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. 
Our Annual Match with the Oxford University Bicycle 
Club will be held at the Crystal Palace neat Wednesday, 
13th instant, at 6 p.m. Tickets are obtainable from me 
at Is. each. Although members do not save anything by 
purchasing them from the Club, they are particularly 
requested to do so, as we have to settle with the Crystal 
Palace Company for one hundred tickets, whether used 
or not. After the Match the competitors will dine together 
in the Palace, and I shall be glad to receive the names of 
any gentlemen (whether members of the LB.C. or not) 
who may desire to be present. Names should be sent in to 
me not later than Monday, June 11th, in order that the 
necessary arrangements may be made. 

E. S.^ Price, Hon. Sec. 

LAWN TENNIS. 
The following is the result of the drawing, and it is 
hoped that the number of brackets will not confuse the 
competitors (?). 

The first round must be played, and the winners must 
declare themselves by June 23rd (the best out of three sets in 
the first three rounds, the remainder the best out of five sets). 

Hewitt's address is 89, Cambridge Gardens, W,, all the 
others are in the Bl 

Round. 

Hewitt, G. S. ... 
Wyndham, W... 
Gruggen, R. M. 
Nay lor, H. S. ... 

Powell, J ' 

Rucker, M. D... 
Elgood,P. M. 
Hindley,E. H... 
Scrutton, T.E... 

Lloyd, A 

Potter, L 

Reynolds, H. R. . 
Herbert, Arthur 
Potter, A. L. . 

Beck, G. F 

Scrutton, J. H... 
Francis, R.H. M. 
Potter, J. F. ... 
Francis, R G. ... 

Barker, A 

Herbert, Alfred.. 
Sharp, H. N. ... 

Paull,R. J 

A bye. / 

IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN STATED LAST WEEK 
THAT ''TIES ARE NOT TO BE PLAYED ON SATUR- 
DAY AFTERNOONS OR EVENINGS." 

H. N. Shabp. 



ue book. 

2nd 
Round. 



8rd 
Bound. 



4ih 
Bound. 



A bye 



6th 
Bound. 



- Wins. 



SPECIAL GENERAL MEFflNG. 
Members are reminded of the above, which takes place 
on Monday, 18th instant, at "City Arms Tavern," at 
6.30 p.m. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 

N.E. DiSTEICT. 

June 2nd. — Notwithstanding the glorious weather only 
five men assembled at Syborn's Corner, of whom, alas ! the 
D.C. was not one ; he was reported as being engaged in 
sharpening his legal acumen in foreign climes. After some 
time spent in criticising the new tram-cars and discussing 
the route, each member modestly disclaiming any right to 
a casting vote, a somewhat late start was made vid Whip's 
Cross and Woodford. The Forest Road was then chosen, 
and found to have greatly deteriorated since last visited by 
the District. Here charming glimpses of forest scenery were 
obtained, and many longing glances cast at the shady glades 
lying below the road, but in spite of dust, a scorching sun, 
and a slight head-wind, stimulated by a sense of duty and 
the scent of the hawthorns, the party jogged on, and were 
rewarded with a better surface at the ''Wake Arms.*' 
Shortly after Weeks was sighted, enjoying d.f.n. under a 
shady tree in company with what he is pleased to term " his 
new meerschaum " (scoffers were heard to hint darkly at a 
more humble material). At Epping, Baldwin pulled up, 
and was left at the Old Thatched House" to be called for ; 
the remainder of the road was new to the majority, and 
the fine views over open country, a contrast to the thick 
wood of the forest, much appreciated. Harlow was reached 
shortly after six without a dismount by the original starters, 
and enquiries resulted in finding the Green Man " and a 
most urbane landlady, whose amiable qualities, alas ! did 
not appear to be shared by her "hired gal to this fact 
subsequent complaints as to the quality of the milk may 
possibly be attributable. Tea was, however, satisfactory 
on the whole, the interval preceding its preparation 
being spent in taking stock of a small fruit garden, 
some fine strawberry blossoms attracting special atten- 
tion, and awakening in the bosom of one individual 
certain selBsh, not to say greedy, plans for future opera- 
tions. Just as tobacco time arrived the Brothers Hough 
rode up, having rushed from Hackney in an hour 
and three quarters; after giving them breathing time, a^ 
start was effected about 8.20, amid cheery good wishes 
from two local riders at a cottage opposite ; the ride out 
having been uneventful a hind wheel kindly enlivened the 
return journey by shedding its tyre, but by the aid of some 
wire cork-screw arrangements was effectually secured. 
[Mem.— These same wires have already done good servicei 
by keeping a tyre secured for about 25 miles after the^ 
Dunstable Meet without perceptible wear.] j 

A halt was made at Epping to light up and call for 
Baldwin, but the bird had flown. The market carts wert 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



for once comparatively harmless, but some mconsistent 
behaviour on the part of the driver of a trap occasioned a 
momentary excitement. The usual breaking up commenced 
at the Waterworks in the Woodford Road, the Clapton 
contingent making for the Marshes, arriving at the top of 
Spring Hill without incident, whence your reporter wended 
his solitary way across Stamford Hill and reached home in 
safety. It was generally regretted that the Erith Meet had 
not been favoured with equally good weather. Present : 
Baldwin, R. B. Hough, S. G. Hough, Kelsey, Lloyd, Long, 
Weeks, and C. Y. Ltve. 

W. DiSTBICT. 

The D.C. having given notice that urgent private business 
would require his presence in another direction, the run on 
June 2nd was carried out in rather a casual manner. 
Langmore, starting from Paddington and going by way of 
Harrow, Pinner, and Rickmansworth, reached Chenies at 
6-30, where he found that four North-west men had already 
arrived and had gone down to the river for a bathe, where- 
upon he followed in search of them. As the party were 
returning to the " Bedford Arms," Naylor appeared from 
West Drayton, and soon after Oliver TTiorn came in from 
town, making with half a dozen North-west and one North- 
easter, a fairly respectable muster. After a satisfactory tea, 
four members started home vta Rickmansworth, Pinner and 
the Harrow Lanes, Naylor going back to West Drayton, 
whilst the others were left discussing the relative advantages 
of stopping where they were or going on to High Wycombe. 
Roads loose and stony in places, but fair on the whole. 
Present : J. W. Langmore, E. Naylor and 0. Thorn 



S.W. District. 
Owing to the unexpected absence of our respected D.O., 
I now take the earliest opportunity of reporting our adven- 
tures of Saturday last. Being favoured with the finest of 
weather, although with the dustiest of roads, Hawley and 
myself each pursued our own course to the "Anchor" at 
Shepperton, where, during vacuum filling, we were charmed 
with the sweet tone of the bugle by the well-known 'Arry 
and his pals. Judging from the paucity of numbers, it 
leads me to presume that the beauties of the Thames acted 
as a deterrent to the two wheeler. It seems somewhat dis- 
heartening to a member to ride from Hampstead, and, on 
arriving at his destination, to find he is the sole being until 
I arrive on the scene. Next Saturday will be the run to 
East Grinstead to join the S.E. Members present : 
A. Hawley and Habby L. Ryan. 

N.W. District. 
If things continue as they have been lately, the N.W. 
will very soon have a claim to the title of " the Little 
District ; " ji'ce men out last Saturday, and a blank run the 
week before, is a sad come down from our average last year. 
After waiting in vain at Hendon Station from 4.25 to 5.0 



o'clock, I rode via Watford to Rickmansworth, where I met 
Oliver Thorn, and we then proceeded together to Chenies, 
where we found two W. and one N.& man, besides four 
N.W. who had started from Hampstead an hour before the 
Meet time. These directed us to the bathing place, which 
we found to be about the size of the baths at the " Milford 
Arms," but not quite so deep. Returning to the house, 
we saw our friends ride off in detachments as they had 
come, while we sat down to a frugal meal, after which we 
rode together as far as Harrow, where we parted. Present : 
Elgood, Hill, Tulloch, Spencer, Stunt (N.E), and 

H. S. Jackson. 



S.E. Distriot. 
The clock of the little church at Sanderstead, one of the 
prettiest villages, by the way, in the district, had not long 
struck five, and around the palings were gathered a dozen 
or so of the South East last Saturday afternoon, on paper- 
chasing thoughts intent. On one side the two hares, 
Wyndham and Barker, conversed in low mysterious tones, 
while the faces of not a few were turned down the road, 
looking for first signs of the appeart^nce of the captain, nor 
were their expectations, thU time, doomed to disappoint- 
ment. Ten minutes had scarcely slipped away when the 
captain — and there was no mistaking the well-known form 
— was seen breasting the hill A moment more and he was 
the centre of an admiring group, all eager to welcome him. 
Meanwhile, the bares had managed to fix on their shoulders 
the bolster-shaped bags. At a quarter past five the signal 
was given, and away they sped down the Westerham 
Road. How long ? — Five minutes. Time's up ! and after 
them strained the whole pack of six and a half couples, 
led by an old veteran, the hero of many a bard 
day's sport. At Warlingham Green it was evident the 
hounds were at fault ; a false scent had led to a check, and 
from this point the hounds were for several minutes " all 
abroad." Some following real or imaginary tracks through 
ploughed fields, over hedges and down precipices, others by 
working along the roads, came upon the scent again 
casually. But before very long the leading hounds were 
giving tongue in hot chase back towards Croydon, over 
Riddlesdown. Hers Stephen Smith, who was not to be 
enticed by false trails, however artfully laid, held a long 
lead of the other hounds. Day and Hartridge came next, 
^ith the two Browns coming up fast. Up the hill past the 
infirmary and then through shady lanes, where one would 
fain linger on a fine summer's evening, the hares held a 
straight course for Banstead, and passing by the Station, 
they reached the "Glynn Arms" at 6.16, one hour and 
one minute from the start. The first hound (0. A. Brown) 
arrived 4| minutes later, having passed Stephen Smith— 
who was delayed by an untimely fall — half a mile from 
home. H. G. A. Brown, when well up, lost his place by 
taking a wrong turn at Banstead Station. The times of 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



117 



the Iiaies and the leading honnds, for which we are in- 
debted to Arthur Herbert, were as follows : — 



Left. 



Arrived. 



:} 



5.15 



5.20 



Haree. 

A. Barker... . 
W. Wyndham. 

Honndi. 
C. A. Brown . 
8. P. Smith . 
A. Day ... . 
R G. Francis . 
H. G. A. Brown 
Hartridge (v.). 
McBae ... . 
A. Barrett 
A. C. Potter (v.) 
Several members were found awaiting our arrival at the 
Glyn Arms/' and altogether 23 men and 3 visitors sat 
down to tea after what may be considered a successful run, 
in spite of one or two mishaps. Present: F. L. Adam, 
A. Barker, Ashley Barrett (N.E), Belfield, C. A. Brown, 
H. G. A. Brown, A. Day, Halliday, Alfred Herbert, Arthur 
Herbert, Leeds (W.), McRae, W. C. Oswald, Parker, J. P. 



•:.} 



... 6.1G 

... e.aof 

... 6.21 

... 6.22 

... 6.23i 

... 6.26 

... 6.29 

... 6.31 

not timed. 



Potter, J. W. Potter, 0. P. Schmettau, S. P. Smith, S. E. 
Whealler, Willis, F. M. Williams, W. Wyndham, three 
visitors (Barker, Hartridge, and A. C. Potter) and 

B. G. Frakcis, District Captain. 

EAST GRINSTEAD. 
A great many men have promised to come to next Satur- 
day's run to East Grinstead, so there is every chance of a 
really good Meet. The result of the Match with Cambridge 
will be telegraphed to the " Railway Arms," where we shall 
have tea at 7 o'clock. The Croydon Division will leave the 
Fire Station at 4.30 punctually. This will allow the 
Blackheath men a quarter of an hour's grace. 

R. G. Faanoib, District Captain. 

WEST DISTRICT. 
On account of the races at Cambridge on Saturday next, 
and as a great number of members will consequently be 
there, the run has been altered, by special request, from 
Leith Hill to East Grinstead, in order to meet the S.E. at 
their favourite rendezvous. Those who can manage to go, 
kindly meet at Barnes Station at 4 o'clock. 

H. C. PiooTT, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Dftte. N.E. 


N.W. 


w. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


r Lea Bridge Bd.8.S0, 
^ J and Sybom's Comer 
9 ] 8.45/ for Blaok- 


8.45, "Jack Straw'* 
Castle" forWuXAT- 

HAMPSIIAD^ 


Barnes Station, 4.0, 
for East Griv- 
8TIAD. MeetS.£. 


Kingston Station, 
4.0, for East Gbik- 
BTEAD. MeetS.£. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbinstxad. 
Meet S.W. 


8.80, Old Lewisham 
Church, for East 
Gbihstkad. Meet 
S.W. 



June 16.— ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 





Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 


8.45, Savemake Cot. 


Kingston 


SUtion, 


8.45, Croydon Cen- 


"Hare & BiUet," 


eo 

Cl 


and Sybom's Comer 


Castie^" fsr Stan- 


tage,MiUHmKd., 


4.0, for 


Nbw- 


tral Station, for 


4.45, for Chiowbll. 


June 
> 


8.45, for CHiowWi. 


MOBB. Meet W. 


Acton, for Stak- 


laud's 


COAMSB 


Chiowbll. Meet 


Meet N.E. 


Meet S.E. 




MOBi. ("Crown.") 
Meet N.W. 


and the 

Pool. 


Silent 


N.E. 





BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(COMTIMUBD FBOM PAOB 110.) 

§ 21.-'Zurich to Schaffhausen, and the Folk qf the Bhine, 
The RhioefallB are often spoken of as a somewhat ''hack- 
neyed " sight, such as one is bound to see once in one's life 
for the sake of maintaining a position in society and not 
being taken at a disadvantage in the intercourse of the 
dinner table. But to my mind there are few sights so 
enchanting, if you only give yourself time to enjoy it at 
full leisure, and to make the regulation expeditions to the 
different points of view provided for you. If Zurich be the 
point from which you visit them I recommend you to take 
your bicycle by train to the Dachs^ station. There is a 
fairly quick train leaving Zurich at 7.20 and reaching 
Dachsen at 9.0. This will give you full leisure for enjoying 
the falb. You will ride from Dachsem to (f mile) Schloss 
Laufen, where you leave your bicycle in the courtyard. 



The road from Laufen to Schaffhausen mounts up a bit at 
first, and the top bit (after passing a fork where you keep 
to the left) may very likely be found stony. Soon after 
this you turn into the main road from Zurich to Schaff- 
hausen, and have a lovely descent of some 2^ miles into 
the town ; the road is so good that on returning we rode 
u]) it a^ain the whole way against a very strong wind. 
The following is the route from Schaffhausen to Zurich : — 

... Dachaen (RheinfaU). 

... Schaffbauaen. 

... Benken. 

... OrUnffen. 

... Andemngen. 

... HettUngen. 

... Oringen. 

... Winterthur. 

... T5sa. 

. . . Eupf erhaminer. 

... Tagelschwangen. 

... Schwameiidingen. 

... Zurich. 



Height. 


Distance. 


1285 


::: ij 


1870 ... 


... »i 


1406 ... 


... 12 


1120 ... 


... 14 


1410 ... 


... 18J 


1415 ... 


... 20 


1400 ... 


... 28 


1400 . . 


... 25 


1510 ... 


... 27J 




... 804 


1400 \\\ 


... 854 


1850 ... 


... 40 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Besides these levels, yon have to rise about 300 feet 
between Schafifhausen and Benken, 200 between Eupfer- 
hammer and Tagelschwangen, and another 200 between 
Schwamendingen and Zurich. No occasion to dismount, 
unless for the hill in Andelfingen. It is a broad high road 
all the way, on which you cannot well go wrong. At the 
fork just beyond Toss both roads lead to Zurich — the left 
or lower one is the main road (Haupt Strasse), but it is 
quite likely that the other is just as good. The shell of 
the old Minster Church at Schaffhausen is interesting, but 
as regards fittings it is without any exception the meanest 
building of an ecclesiastical description I was ever in, and 
does not even boast of an organ. Winterthur is a nice 
bright pleasant little town with a very lively station. It is 
worth while to ride a bit about the streets. You should 
lunch at the "Lion cFOr*' and ask for some ''Schloss 
Teuffen," a most excellent red wine at 2f. 50c. the bottle. 
Musical members will be interested to know that Hermann 
Goetz, the composer of " The Taming of the Shrew," whose 
early death we all deplore, was for some time organist at 
Winterthur, in succession to Eirchner, a pianoforte com- 
poser of some note, who is still living at Leipzig. It has 
the reputation of being the most musical town in Switzer- 
land. The Winterthur road enters Zurich by the Rami 
Strasse at the back of the University Buildings, and you 
should follow this throughout, as that part of the town is 
very steep, and short cuts would only land you in diffi- 
culties. The Leonliard Gasse in particular, which curves 
down from the /rant of the University Buildings to the 
bridge near the Railway Station, should be carefully 
avoided. The upper part of it looks tempting, but round 
the corners below it is very dangerous indeed. 

§ 22.-'Zurich to Constanz and back by Schaffhausen. 

From Zurich either ride or take the train to Winterthur; 
if you ride, the other road to Toss, alluded to in the last 
section, might be followed for variety. Similarly, if you 
rode back from Schaffhausen, an alternative road through 
Marthalen might perhaps be taken for a bit of the way, 
but I have not been along it. Unless, however, you send a 
bag and sleep at Constanz, all you would be able to do in the 
day is to ride from Winterthur via Constanz to Schaff- 
hausen, taking the train at both ends for the rest of the 
way. The course can be further shortened by taking train 
to Zurich from Stein instead of from Schaffhausen. 



DistancM. 




MUes. 






Winterthur. 


5 v.*. 


Attikon. 


7i 


Islikon. 


10 


Frauenfeld. 


IJi 


Pfyn. 


17 


Miilheim. 


21 


Sonterswylen. 


24J 


Tagerwylen. 


26J 


Constanz. 


81J 


Ermattingen. 


87 


Rteckbom. 





Stein. 


61 


... ... Diessenhofen. 


67 


Sohaffhaiuen. 



Frauenfeld is worth a dismount irrespective of paving. 
From Pfyn you have a pretty steady mount of 600 feet, no- 
where unridable, to a mile beyond Sonterswylen, when you 
descend the same amount to Constanz. From Constanz to 
Schaffliausen you follow the Rhine all the way, and there 
are no hills to speak of after the first short pull up to the 
turning in Tagerwylen. The villages you pass through on 
the side of the Rhine are extremely pretty, and the houses 
have quite a style of their own. The " Constanzer-Hof " is 
a very good hotel, but Constanz itself is a most depressingly 
dull place — a kind of city of the dead. There is a good 
bathing place near the "Constanzer-Hof." The lake was 
very rough the day we were there, and (as Baedeker 
touchingly puts it) I went very near to experiencing all 
the horrors of seasickness." Our ride to, or rather towards, 
Schaffliausen was in the teeth of the very strongest gale I 
ever experienced in the saddle. By the time we got to 
Stein we were quite worn out with our exertions in 
buffeting it, despite our then nearly two months' training, 
80 we took to the train. The Rhine was lashed into regular 
breakers, and the colours of the river were most varied as 
well as lovely, according to the variations of exposure to 
the wind and the broken lights of cloud and sunshine 
playing upon it. 

August, 1882. Gerabd F. Cobb. 

{To be continued.) 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The O.U.Bi.C. trials to select representatives for the 
match against Cambridge were held on the 0.n.A.C. 
Running Ground on Thursday, May 24th. 

• ••••• 

As Walter and Buckley had up to the week before been 
rowing in their College eights, and were consequently 
somewhat out of form, and as W. E. Adam was not up yet, 
the Committee decided to postpone the Twenty-five Miles. 

Two Miles Race.—W. F. M. Buckley, Ch. Ch., 1; 
W. M. Merry, Exeter, 2 ; L. Andrews, Ch. Ch., 0. Merry 
led for four laps, after which Buckley went to the front 
and won by 30 yards. Time 6min. 22}sec. 

# • • • • • 

Ten Miles Race.'-YI. F. M. Buckley, Ch. Ch., 1 ; D. R. 
Smith, Queen's, 2 ; W. A. G. Walter, Exeter, 3 ; 
G. Stapleton, Oriel, 0. Smith led for five miles, when 
Buckley passed him, and, going away, won by 200 yards ; 
Smith, after a capital race, beat Walter on the post for 
second place ; Stapleton close up. Time 33niin. 3sec. 
« • • • « • 

The Cambridge Trials for the " Inter Varsity " were held 
on Thursday afternoon at Cambridge, when J. S. Whatton 
beat Day in the Two Miles by four yards, in the capital 
time of 5.54j^. He also won the Ten Miles by a yard from 
his brother, in the slow time of 33.19f . The Twenty Five 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



119 



Miles resulted unexpectedly in the victory of Carr of Trinity 

by a few inches from Day, Olive being well up third. 

Time Ih. 24m. 17}sec. 

««••«« 

I am sure all our members will regret to hear of the 
resignation by Mr. Cobb, of the presidencies of the Bicycle 
Union and of the C.U.Bi.C. He has held each office prac- 
tically since the foundation of each society. To him indeed 
the B.U. owes its existence and early training, and he has 
been the life and soul of the Cambridge Club for many 
years. I am glad to hear that the members of the latter 
Club have determined to present him with some permanent 
memorial of his connection with the Club, which will pro- 
bably take the form of an addition to that musical library 
which many members of the L.B.C. have become acquainted 
with. More than £50 was collected among members of the 
Club in a fortnight towards this end. 

«••#•• 

The next Council Meeting of the B.U. is fixed for 
Thursday, June 14th, at the " City Arms Tavern." Among 
the chief matters on a very lengthy agenda paper are the 
change of name. The Executive recommend that the name 
be changed, and that " National " form- part of it, but find 
themselves unable to move anything more definite. Mr. Todd 
moves, "The National Cyclists' Union," Mr. Hampton 
Roberts, " The National Wheelmen's Union." The subject 

appears promising for talk. 

• *••«• 

An elaborate code of regulations for appeals from suspen- 
sions has been drawn up, and is to be submitted to the 
meeting. A. B. W. Whatton continues his appeals to out- 
siders by a motion designed to draw manufacturers into the 
fold. The Council will also be asked to consider racing 
tracks and advertising the value of prizes. 

But the most important resolution stands in the name of 
of Mr. Todd and is as follows : — 

" That from this date any Amateur wilf uUy competing at Sports not held 
nnder the rnles of the Union, or rules approved by the Union, shall be 
liable to be suspended for such time as the Executive shall think fit, 
subject to the same right of appeal as in suspensions for other offences.* 

This is a similar rule to that of the Amateur Athletic 
Association, and we hope very much that the Council will 
see its way to adopt it. It will do more than anything else 
to purify the racing branch of the sport. 

• • • • ' « • 

Our Evergreen Member is shooting forth with renewed 
vigour. He scored another win in a two mile handicap on 
Thursday last at an evening meeting of the L.A.C. at 
Stamford Bridge. Time 5.54^, with 70 yards from Milner. 

• ' • « ♦ • • 

Fopplewell of the Ipswich B.C. did a good performance in 
the Annual Five Mile Road Race of his Club on the Norwich 
Road ; his time for the distance being 15 miu. 30 sees. 

The Front Wheel Hub. 



THE INTER-UNIVERSITY BICYCLE RACES. 
The Inter-University Races took place at Oxford on 
Tuesday. The weather was fine, but the path very loose, 
the wind raising thick clouds of dust, and making the times 
bad by hurrying the riders down the hill at such a speed 
that they had to ease at the lower comer, and at times 
almost bringing them to a standstill coming up the 
straight. 

Two Miles Race.— W. F. M. Buckley, Oxford, 1; 
J. S. Whatton, Cambridge, 2 ; C. L. Schwind, Cambridge, 
3 ; J. R. Walter, Oxford, fell. One of the slowest races 
ever seen among first-class riders. Buckley led with 
Whatton at his heels, either waiting for the other until 150 
yards from home, when Whatton drew up nearly level, 
Buckley however responded, and quickly obtained a lead 
of five yards, by which distance he won. Time, 6.37. 

Ten Miles Race.— W. F. M. Buckley, Oxford, 1 ; J. S. 
Whatton, Cambridge, 2 ; J. Stapleton, Oxford, 3 ; L. C. Carr, 
Cambridge, ; A. W. Rumney, Cambridge, ; W. M. 
Merry, Oxford, 0. At the end of the seventh mile 
Stapleton was leading, followed by Whatton and Buckley. 
At this point Buckley suddenly took the other competitors 
by surprise by putting on tremendous steam and com- 
pletely running away from them all ; Whatton was quickly 
in pursuit, but after riding very pluckily, a hopeless stern 
chase was defeated by 300 yards. Time, 32 min. 

Twenty-five Miles Race. — W. K. Adam, Oxford, 1 ; 
W. A. G. Walter, Oxford, 2; E. T. Olive, Cambridge, 
3 ; 0. D. Day, Cambridge, ; C. Fagan, Cambridge, ; 
E. G. Frazer-Luckie, Oxford, 0. At twenty miles, the 
order was Walter, Day, Adam, and this continued until 
rounding the bottom curve for the last time, when Day 
passed Walter ; Adam put on one of his finest spurts on 
entering the straight, and forty yards from the finish had 
just taken a slight lead of Day, when most unfortunately 
the latter fell, and left Adam to finish 10 yards in front of 
Walter. Day was not hurt, with the exception of a few 
small cuts. Time, 1 hr. 27 min. 12 sec. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the pozpentine casteth off his qnUls 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioscorides affirmeth it a 
point of foUy to believe it.**^ir T. Bbowns. 

More N.E. energy. One day last week R. B. Hough rode 
from Hackney to Stowmarket and back, a distance of 170 
miles. 

«••«•« 

It was just as well that the N.E. members had not been 
informed of the dudden departure of their D.C. for Vienna. 
On learning it, at Sybom's Comer, an old and steady-going 
member of the District, was heard to remark " If I had 
only known it, I would'nt have come out in this cap." 
• •««•# 

" The reason of my success in the paperchasing line " 
said a S.E. notable on Saturday before the start, "is thaj^ 



Digitized by 



J 



120 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



I make use of my head." E'er half an hour was over an 
unkind fate had taken him at his word. Fortunately a 
bent handle and a hole in the road were the only bad 
results. 

• ••«•• 

Turkish duplicity is notorioua But if all I hear is true 
about the wily Zulu having hired myrmidons along the 
road to deceive the ingenuous hounds with false trails and 
falser words, the Turk surely is no longer in it. 

• «•••• 

It was quite like old times to find Arthur Herbert once 
more at S.K meets, and to see Jack Potter plying his 
treadles with all his pristine impetuosity. 

I can pity a man who has injured his leg in the manly 
sport of bicycling ; but at lawn tennis — a game only fit for 
women and infants — ^bah ! the thing's impossible. 

The Captam's mount long used to Essex Flats and jpssez 
Mole Hills, did not seem quite at home at first on the 
Surrey uplands. A few more runs in S.E. country would 
soon remedy this. 

I hear that the S.R D.C. is quite longing for another wet 
Saturday, in order that his so-called butterflies " may have 
all opportunity of retrieving their laurels — ^presuming of 
course they have lost any. 

«•#••• 

I remind our members with all the vigour of which I am 
capable that entries for our race meeting close on Saturday ; 
every member should enter for the Club Mile at least. 

• «•««• 

I hope to see a large number of men at the Palace on 
Wednesday, to see our match against Oxford. Tickets 
should be taken through the Secretary to save the Club 
expense. 

The winners of all the races at the Inter-Varsity are 
L.B.G. men. 

PORCUPINB. 



THE ANNUAL RACE MEETING AT THE CRYSTAL 
PALACE ON SATURDAY, JUNE 16th. 
As the Committee intend to make the Race Meeting a 
success in every way, they trust members will exert them- 
selves vigorously to sell tickets in every direction among 
their friends, remembering thai; for every ticket sold a 
small profit accrues to the Club. Even those who are not 
specially interested in bicycling may bo glad to buy tickets 
when they learn that these can be obtained through our 
Hon. Sec. for Is. 6d. apiece upon what is ordinarily a half- 
crown day. 

By purchasing through this channel a gain of one shilling 
upon each ticket will be effected, and the ticket so obtained 
will admit to the Palace and grounds as well as to our 



Race Meeting. Subjoined is a comparative statement of 
expenses : — 



Ticket of Adminbn to 
Palace, GronndB, and onr 
Race Meetiaff, if bought 
of the Hon. Sec 

Railway Fare, Ist dass 
Beturn from London to 
the Palace 

Profit 



9, d. 



1 6 



2 
1 



4 6 



Ticket of Adminion to 
Palace, Gnmnds, and to 
our Race Meeting, if 
bought at the Palace, 
Railway Stations, or of 
other Agents 

Railway Fare, 1st Class 
Return from London to 
the Palace 



2 6 

2 
4 6 



June 



July 



9 
9 

11 

13. 

16. 

16. 

19, 

23. 
23. 
28. 

30. 

30. 
30 

7. 

7. 

7. 

7. 
7, 
10. 



14 

14. 

19. 

21. 



25 

Sept. 15, 



RACING FIXTURES. 
— Pickwick Races at the Crystal Palace. 
.— C.U.Bi.C. L.B.C. at Cambridge. 
.— C.U.Bi.C. Qub Races, Cambridge. 
— O.U.Bi.C. V. L.B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
—London B.C. Races at Crystal Palace. 
— Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
.—University College Hospital at Stamford 
B' 'dge. 

. — L.A,0. at Stamford Bridge. 
.— Clapnam B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
—Rovers B.C. at Crystal Palace. Evening Race 
Meeting. 

— Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birmingham. 
. — A. A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
, — Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal PaUce. 
. — ^Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 
. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
. — ^B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle 

Oiampionships at Birmingliam. 
, — Lewiaham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
. — Belgrave B.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
, — Nat».«ial Temperance League — Band of Hope 
Union. Two Miles Open, at Crystal Pakce. 
Entries close June 30th. 
. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at CrystiJ Palace. 
— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 
Crystal Palace. 

—Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 
Palace. 

— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 

— Surrey B.C. at Eennington Oval. 



CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
J. W, Alison, Claremont Villa, Montague Road, Datchet. 



NOTICK TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU oontributions must be addressed to ** The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one ride of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion it denred, roust be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Dablino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.C.^Jane 7, 1888. 



Digitized by 



Google 





An Ofticial Kecobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings op the L.B.C, 



Vol. VL No. 15.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rigrhts reserved] 



June 14, 1883. 



The Editor 

Notices 

Satnrdfty Rwu 

Club Meets 

Bicyding in Switserlaiid 
L3.C. r. C.U.Bi.C. 



CONTENTS. 

PAOB 



121 

122 
123 
124 
125 
125 



AU Round the Wheel ... 

Correspondence 

L.B.C. V, O.U.Bi.C 

Quills : 

Racing Fixtures 

Notice to Correspondents 



PAGE 

126 
127 
128 
128 
128 
128 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reoeption of oopy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



THE EDITOR. 

Under tbis heading we do not propose to give an auto- 
biography of ourselves, which would be of little interest to 
our teaden, but to discuss shortly— ^ery shortly — the 
various duties, difficulties and cares which appertain to an 
office which we humbly submit is of some importance. 

The first and principal duty of an Editor is to be strictly 
impartial, and he should not neglect to be punctual : to 
exercise a complete control over his temper, which will be 
sorely tried. 

How difficult it is to explain to a contributor that his 
copy is irrelevant and cannot be published without hurting 
his feelings, and how much is the difficulty increased when 
the article is the result of a special appeal for copy. Take, 
as an instance, the present effusion. We can imagine our 
worthy Editor tearing his auburn locks when he peruses it, 
and exclaiming — Oh, that we had never asked that man ! 
How ttuly weak is this ! How are we to reject without 
incurring undying enmity ? And then we can see the copy 
being hurled into the waste paper basket, and an expression 
of unbending firmness coming over that face we all love so 
welL His emotion overpowers him. He cannot work, so 
he lights his pipe, and presently the unbending features 
become less stem, a laissez aUer^kiud of smile appears ; 



the copy is picked out from the basket with the tongs and 
is sent upstairs to be set up. Then comes temptation. 
Shall we have a direful revenge. It is fiill well in his 
power ; but no, the Club knew it could trust the man when 
it selected him, and it was right, he decides not to publish 
the name of the writer. 

Want of copy is a great source of care. Of padding 
there is usually plenty;, but it is the absence of those 
articles, quills and interesting letters, that is the Editor's 
real trial. He could probably write them himself if he 
could only think of good subjects, but having composed 
article after article, quill after quill, for past numbers, he 
gradually reduces his stock of subjects which L oked so in- 
exhaustible when he took the reins, and longs for ideas. 
So, dear fellow members, if you would help the Editor, 
send up ideas ; never mind how crude in form, he will put 
them into shape. 

There is one peculiarity about this important post which 
we must not pass over without honourable mention. It is, 
we believe, the only office in the Club into which the 
elected one is duly installed— or, speak more correctly, in- 
stalls himself— with due ceremony. The first act of the 
new hand is to invest in a postcard, on which be proceeds 
to indite a humble request that his predecessor will consent 
to honour him with his presence at dinner at an early date, 
and not neglect to bring the contents of the "tub" with 
. him. This is not very difficult, for, although from a sense 
of amour propre, the Editor will not allow that the '* tub " 
is not brimming over with good material, we may perhaps 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



80 far let our readers into State secrets bs to divulge the 
harrowing fact that the contents of the aforesaid tub can 
occasionally be carried in a waistcoat pocket. 

The invitation being accepted, and the ex-Editor having 
been beguiled into the banqueting hall, he is feasted right 
royally and plied with as many different kinds of wine as 
he can be induced to take. The moment arrives when, 
with Spartan like firmness, he refuses the sparkling nectar, 
and he is then conducted to the billiard room, and after 
being supplied with the balmiest Havanas, he is informed 
that the ladies "like tobacco!" When the Havana is 
nearly consumed — peace be to its ashes ! — the subject of 
the Gazette is introduced in the most unsuspicious manner, 
and the victim having been complimented on the brilliancy 
of the articles published during the past year which are 
assumed to be his— though probably he never wrote one of 
them — he is gradually and skilfully led to initiate the 
neophyte in all the treasured secrets which ordinary mortals 
must not know. The process of pumping having been 
successfully brought to the driest of ends the pumped one 
is consigned to bed, and next morning, after having plunged 
into a bath of the temperature of 32^ which he pretends to 
enjoy, is taken up to town and dismissed. 

Having described the sublime and pleasing ceremony of 
installation, we might proceed to initiate our readers into 
many other editorial mysteries, but honestly we dare not ; 
the stern visage of our Captain seems to appear before us 
and forbid us to continue, eo we conclude with a pleasing 
consciousness that we have written much and told little. 



NOTICE.— SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING. 
The Special General Meeting, to discuss and decide the 
advisability of encouraging Tricyclists to join our ranks, 
will be held at the " City Anns Tavern," St. Mary Axe, on 
Monday, 18th June, at 6.30 p.m. 

Agenda. 

The CommitteeVill recommend — 

" Thttt after haying oarefnlly cooaidered the ponUon of TricydistB 
in the Club, and the question of encouraging TricydiBts to join our 
ranks, they are of opinion that no alteration is advisable in the Club 
Rules or organisation, and that it is not expedient to hold a Road Trial 
for Tricyclistg." 

To consider the following motions : — 
Motions by T. E. Scrutton — 

I. In Rule 11, to insert before "members of the Committee'* 
" past and present," and to insert after such words " or member of the 
Club, being at the time an officer of either of the O.XJ.Bi.C. or 
C.U.BLC." 

II. To add to Rule 5 " not being members of any other Bicycle or 
Tricycle Club having its headquartav within twenty miles of London." 

Motion by W. J. Williams-^ 

In Rule 2, for the Prizes for Attendance at Club Meets, to alter the 
words " to the extent of the prescribed course," so as to read " to a 
point ten miles distant from the starting place.*' 

£. S. Pbics, Hon. Sec. 



ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 
Members are finally reminded of the above, which takes 
place at the Crystal Palace this Saturday, 16th inst., at 
3 p.m. Tickets are obtainable from members of the Com- 
mittee at the reduced price of Is. 6d., and from myself. All 
members who do not use the free ticket sent to them are 
requested to return it to me as soon possible, as the Club 
has to pay for all tickets that are not so returned. The 
following entries have been received : — 
Two Miles (Open). 



T. W. Hewitt. 
C. VV. Coe. 
Theo. Godlee. 
H. R. Reynolds. 
F. G. Medcalf. 
W. Wyndham. 

F. G. Dray. 
J. E. Phillips. 
0. G. M. Leeds. 

E. Tyler. 
Sydney Lee. 

G. R. Oxx. 

F. S. Buckingham. 
A. R. Lockwood. 
A. L. Radford. 

C. D. Vesey. 

G. F. Beck. 

M. H. Jephson. 
W. K. Adam. 
G. Stapleton. 
L. B. Reynolds. 



H. H. Stinton. 
0. Thorn. 

F. Izard. 

C. King. 
H. Walker. 
R. Dover. 
A. Fisher. 

G. Fraser-Luckie. 

H. C. White. 

W. F. M. Buckley. 
W. M. Merry. 

E. S. W. Roberts. 
A. Thomnson. 

F. E. S. Perry. 
H. B. Clayson. 
W. Agate. 

J. D. Bntler. 

R. A. Woolnough. 

H. W. GaskelL 

D. Albone. 



One Mile (Club). 



A. L. Radford. 
S. P. Smith. 
Theo. Godlee. 
H. R. Reynolds. 
C. Wigan. 
M. H. Dicker. 
0. G. M. Leeds. 
A. Barker. 
A. Day. 
C. E. Parker. 
G. P. Coleman. 
R. G. Francis. 
G. F. Beck. 



M. H. Jephson. 
W. K. Adam. 

G. Stapleton. 
L. B. Reynolds. 
0. Thorn. 

S. Herbert. 
Harold Smith. 

H. M. Hewitt. 
A. Lloyd. 

L. Andrews. 
W. C. Oswald. 
H. G. A. Brown. 
C. A. Brown. 



Five Miles (Scratch). 

C. D. Vesey. A. Thompson. 

G. F. Beck. A. J. McKinlay. 

W. K. Adam. J. D. Butler. 

Chas. King. R. A. Woolnough. 

W. F. M. Buckley. H. W. Gaskell. 
J. C. Tacagni. 

Ladies' Challenge. 

W. Wyndham. 0. Thorn. 

G. F. Beck. W. F. M. Buckley. 

W. K. Adam. J. D. Butler. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



[Note. — This list is not complete, as nearly twenty late entries have 
not been foewarded b^the Secretaiy.] 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



123 



O.U3i.C. V. L.B.C. 
Members will oblige by settling up at once for all tickets 
they may have had for the above Match. 

E. S. Pbicb, Hon. Sec. 

BATH TRIAL, 1883. 
Successful competitors in the above are reminded that 
the medals and certificates are presented at the Annual 
Race Meeting next Saturday, the 16th inst., and are par- 
ticularly requested to be present. 

£. S. Prioe, Hon. Sec. 
SATURDAY RUNS. 

N.E. DiSTEICT. 

Saturday, June 9th. Vienna, — Ty suis, fy reste, was 
the D.C/s terse account of himself. So without their 
leader four members left Sybom's Corner, and took the 
usual route through Chigwell and Abridge, the roads, as 
might have been expected, being found very dusty. At 
Fassingford Bridge a noisy spring was sufficient excuse for 
a short rest, and an unfortunate water rat was made the 
target for a shower of stones. Then on by the main road 
till the turning to Shonk's Mill was reached, and the dust 
and traffic of the high road exchanged for the seclusion of 
narrow lanes, now up, now down, now twisting and turning 
in a manner that would put to blush those ignorant beings 
who talk of Essex as flat and uninteresting. The aspect of 
the country, now wearing its prettiest garb, was frequently 
admired — the trees, untouched by the cold winds that so 
spoilt their beauty last year, having as yet lost none of 
their freshness. At two or three different points it was 
noticed that the timber was being felled, and roots 
grubbed up, and a rustic volunteer§4 tbe information 
that the Baron (Lord Carlingford) was clearing the 
ground. From the watersplash the road was stony to 
Navestock Common, where Child felt hungry, and fearing 
lest Blackmore would be capable of satisfying his appetite, 
he decided to stay at the ''Green Man." The other 
three rode on, and, after fighting their way through 
numberless Essex calves, reached Blackmore about 6.30. 
The small village was scanned for a hostelry, and in the 
process of searching the party came upon the church, which 
has a remarkable wooden tower of three stories. The door 
being open, an inspection of the interior was made — 
an altar tomb with effigies of some Elizabethan worthies, 
and a fine piece of stained glass called forth much admi- 
ration. Adjoining the church is a house that bears the 
name of Jericho, the previous building having been used 
by Henry VIII. as a country seat, and at his occasional 
disappearance his courtiers were wont to observe that 
"his Majesty had gone to Jericho." A native having 
recommended the "Leather Bottle," the machines were 
stabled ; and just as Long wa^ tryi&g to impress the 
landlord with the extent of our appetites, Weeks and 



Arnott on a " Sociable," and Lyne appeared, followed just 
as tea was ready by Stunt, who had ridden round by 
Chelmsford. The meal was chiefly remarkable for the 
scarcity of the milk— if it could be obtained anywhere, one 
would think that this would be about the best place ; but, 
no ! the only way to get it, as was suggested, would be to 
wait for the next train from London. Just as tea was 
finished the Treasurer rode in, having left Hackney at 
six o'clock. After the "Sociable" had been tried and 
approved of by all, it was thought desirable to make a 
start; but a considerable delay occurred, owing to two 
members having mysteriouly disappeared. However, they 
turned up as mysteriously as they had disappeared, and 
the return journey was made by way of Dudbrook, instead 
of Navestock Common— a shorter and more pleasant way, 
though there was scarcely light enough to appreciate the 
scenery. On reaching the Ongar road, lamps were lit, and 
a steady pace maintained for the rest of the way, though 
the riders of the " Sociable " found it rather too slow. 
It is hoped that the B.C. will take note of this, as the 
Treasurer is anxious to atone for past sins, notably on the 
occasion of the Dunstable Meet. Near Walthamstow the 
party gradually broke up, and it is presumed they all 
reached home in safety. Present: Arnott, Child, K. B. 
Hough, Kelsey, Lloyd, Long, Lyne, Stunt, and Weeks. 



S.W. DiSTBIOT. 

The S.W. storm, (for such it must be styled, as its un- 
fortunate influence appears to have been btit little exerted 
elsewhere on Saturday last), was sufficiently copious to act 
as a strong deterrent to those of our members who would 
doubtless have been filled, under ordinary circumstances, 
with something more practical than good intentions. 
Starting from home as the downpour was commencing, I 
was wet through ere I reached that convenient cabmens' 
shelter adjoining the Kingston Station. Here I waited 
patiently for any welcome companion, but in vain, and my 
only consolation, as I watched the violent and drenching 
rain, was a distant ray of brightness in the sky that sug- 
gested faintly that the weather might clear. The hoped for 
termination of thunder and rain took place about 4.35 p.m., 
and consequently, after leaving word for the benefit of any 
adventurous member, that the "District" had left for the 
double gates at Merton, I betook myself thither in the hope 
of finding some members of the W. who were understood to 
be likely to join us at this point. So local had the storm 
proved that my dripping condition occasioned much sur- 
prise on the way to Merton, and provoked frequent 
inquiries from passing cyclists as to the condition of things 
in the direction from whence I had travelled. Merton was 
reached at 5 p.m., and half an hour was spent on the con- 
stant alert for W. members, but as no single L.B.C. man 
was forthcoming, I took the road to Mitcham, proceeding 
thence through Sutton and by Burgh Heath to Reigate 



Digitized by 



124 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Hill, which was reached about 6.45 p.m. A reference to a 
map at this point showed painfully clearly that some 
seventeen more miles had to be covered ere I could reach 
the " Railway Hotel " at East Grinstead, and consequently 
that one and a half hour's more of solitary journeying must 
be undergone before I could hope to indulge in the varied 
pleasures of an extensive Club tea. These were decidedly 
unsatisfactory reflections, and further progress being 
apparently almost useless, I completed my afternoon of 
disappointment by turning the wheels for home, and thus 
afiforded myself ample opportunity for meditating on the 
sins of the District. I could, however, arrive at no satis- 
factory conclusion as to the best method of remedying our 
occasional shortcomings. On returning to Kingston, I met 
Buckler, who had been unavoidably prevented from attend- 
ing the run. Again, further on I found Sewell and Bamett, 
whose energies had apparently been expended in a some- 
what different direction, whilst Ryan was presumably busy 
on the track preparing for the District Challenge Cup. In 
conclusion, let me remind members that the meeting place 
next Saturday is at the Crystal Palace, where I tnist that 
the whole District will be found. I would also call the 
particular attention of members to the following Saturday, 
the 23rd inst., when we make our annual excursion to 
Newlands Corner and that Silent Pool, full of romantic 
traditions, even at so remote a period as the reign of King 
John. We shall have tea as usual at Albury. As our 
worthy Captain has promised to pay us a visit upon this 
occasion, we must all endeavour to obtain an exceptionally 
large muster of our members as a proof of our appreciation 
of the honour he is doing us, and at the same time we 
cordially invite members of other Districts to assist us in 
giving him a hearty welcome. 

• R. M. ORUGaEN, District Captain. 

S.K DffiTRIOT. 

The air was sultry, and thunder-clouds were hanging 
over the the tops of the surrounding hills when a small 
party of five left the Fire Station on Saturday for East 
Grinstead. Just before reaching Caterham we were over- 



taken by H. G. A. Brown, and at the ''Clayton Arms" we 
found J. Kinder, J. F. Potter, and McRae waiting for us. 
The road on as far as Blindley Heath was dusty and more 
than usually rough, but its superficial evils were borne with 
the usual resignation, or even contentment. A heavy 
shower had just passed off when we reached the foot of 
Persuasion Hill, and with the exception of one whose 
untiring zeal for records had led him to act as our pioneer, 
we of the main body were fortunate enough to arrive at 
Qur destination with dry skins. Here our forces were sup- 
plemented by F. B. Smith, Morgan and his brother, H. N. 
Sharp, and last, hut not least, The O'Reilly, who had 
encountered a succession of showers on his way up from 
Brighton. Wyndham's telegram announcing the victory of 
our men at Cambridge came as a pleasant surprise, and soon . 
after we had sat down to tea J. W. Potter (another pleasant 
surprise) arrived and made up the number to sixteen and 
two visitors. Present : H. G. A. Brown, Day, Hartridge, 
S. Herbert, J. Kinder, McRae, Morgan, W. C. Oswald, The 
O'Reilly, J. F. Potter, J. W.' Potter, Sharp, F. B. Smith, 
F. H. Williams, F. M. Williams (W.) ; Morgan and A 0. 
Potter (visitors), and 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



W. DiSTEICT. 

Saturday, 9th. Only one member. F. M. Williams 
arrived at East Grinstead. No doubt the distance and the 
Cambridge races combined to prevent others from getting 
to the favourite haunt of the S.E. The D.C. started, but 
owing to the heavy storm of rain which descended, one 
hour's delay was caused, rendering it therefore an im- 
possibility to ride so far and to return the same evening. 
The next run is on Saturday week to Stanmore, to meet 
the N.W., when I hope all will have recovered from the 
effects of the multiplicity of runs which are taxing the 
utmost efforts of all the District, and that we shall see a 
large muster in atonement for the preceding blank runs. 
Present : F. M. Williams. 

H. C. PiaoTT, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


w. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


as. 

Blaokheath Division. 


June 16.— ANNUAL RACB MEETING. 


June 28. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80 
and Sy horn's Corner 
8.45, for Chiowsll. 
Meet 


3.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle," for Stan- 
UOBE. Meet W. 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MUI HiU Ed., 
Acton, for Stan- 
UOBB. ("Crown.") 
Meet N.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.0, for New- 
land's COBMSB 
and the Silekt 
Pool. 


8.45, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Chiowell. Meet 
N.E. 


"Hare & BiUet,** 
4.45, for CuiowiLL. 
Meet N.E. 


June 80. 


I^Lea Bridge Bd. 3.80, 
' and Sybom*B CJomer 
1 8.ill5, for SiirroBD. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Littls 
BsaXHAMrSTXAD. 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, Mm HiUBd., 
Acton, for MiCKLK- 
HAif. ("Beehive.") 
Meet S.W. and 
S.E. 


Eingston Station, 
4.15, for MiOKLB* 
HAM. MeetW.«id 
SJ!. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Mioelshah. Meet 
W. and S.W. 


8.30, Old Lewisham 
Church, for MiOK- 
LEHAic. Meet W. 
andS.W. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 125 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(COHTINnSD FBOM FAOl 118.) 



§ 2S.— Zurich to Bale. 

Dlatances. 



Ifiles. 






Zurich. 


3 !!! Z Z 


AltateUen. 




Dietikon. 


.51 :;: ::: 


Neoenhof. 


Ui 


BadeiL 


1» 


Oberbtug. 


201 

26 


Bragg'. 


SO 


£ffingen. 

Friok. 




Eiken. 


13 ::: ::: ::: 


8lein. 


86 


Nieder Mumpf . 


891 


Mtfhlin. 


48 


Kheinfelden. 


581 


Bale. 



It was stated in one of my earlier letters that the distance 
from Bftle to Zurich was 56 mile& That is the rail distance ; 
I find the road distance is a little less, as it cuts off some 
comers. This was our last ride preparatory to packing up 
our bicycles at B4le and wending homewards. There is one, 
and only one considerable change of elevation in the route, 
and that is the passage of the Botzberg or mountain range 
separating the valley of the Aare from that of the Bhine. 
The mount up from Brugg is about 800 feet. In riding 
from B4le to Zurich a dismount would be necessary at the 
top of the last steep quarter of a mile down into Brugg, for 
the road is very rough tfnd you have a sharp turn on to a 
narrow bridge at the bottom, and then, a steep pull up the 
paved streets. Except Rheinfelden, which is utterly un- 
rideable, we knew this would be our last pavement, so we 
finished off by riding down it. We had made an early 
start from Zurich, too early to admit of our getting any- 
thing but a little bread and butter for breakfast, but .on 
this and the delicious morning air we jode the whole way 
from Zurich to Rheinfelden (43 miles) in 4 hours and 20 
minutes, all hills and halts included. The villages through 
which we passed after crossing the BotzWg were a sad con- 
trast to the bright, clean, picturesque villages of other parts 
of Switzerland. Being so near the Black Forest, the in- 
habitants of the Canton B&le seem to share the manners 
and customs of their Baden neighbours, and love to line 
their streets with pestilential heaps of 'lihe fertiliser." The 
plastered houses, too, all have a mean and squalid aspect, 
utterly unlike that of the carved and festooned chalets of 
other Cantons. After having a good lunch and rest at 
Rheinfelden, we crossed the bridge and rode to B&le by the 
Baden side. This is by far the best road of the two, but we 
found that one place where we had had to dismount two 
months previously, as they were altering levels, had not yet 
settled down into a rideable condition. We reached our 
old quarters at the " Hotel Euler " about one o'clock, and 
by four, thanks to the invaluable assistance of our good 
friend Qustav, the bicycles were cleaned, dismembered, and 
safely ensconsced in their crates. I maj^ mention that they 
only took eight days on their way to Cambridge, instead of 



thirteen, so that the Oreat Eastern Railway Company were 
correct in telling me previously that they might be expected 
to take seven or eight days in transit. It is apparently 
cheaper to send a bicycle as one of two on the same note of 
consignment than to send it separately, as you get the 
advantage of a reduced rate on the joint weight. The 
" Centaur," which had been despatched by the same route 
previously by itself, cost 13s 4d to reach Cambridge; I paid 
16s 8d for the other two, a trifle more than they cost going 
out, probably on account of the greater ''terminal" charges 
at this end. 

August, 1882. Gerabd F. Cobb. 

(To be continued.) 

L.B.C. f^. C.U.BLC. 
Fortune has at last smiled upon us, and the winning of 
all three events on Saturday last should compensate for our 
defeats in the three previous matches with the C.U.Bi.C- 
The match was run on the ground of the latter, and was 
well attended, among the spectators being Koch, Jackson, 
Hindley, 0. Thorn, and Ashley Barrett, all of whom had 
ridden up, also C. A. Brown and M. H. Dicker, who had 
travelled by train. Though the weather was unspeakably 
hot, the course was in really first rate order, thanks to the 
careful watering it had undergone on the previous day from 
the Cambridge officiak. Without doubt our opponents 
suffered greatly in being deprived of the services of their 
Captain, J. S. Whatton, and the ill-health that prevented 
him from running is as much a matter of regret to our men 
as to the members of his own club. For the London, 
Ashley Barrett acted as judge, and J. 8. Whatton for the 
Cambridge ; the starter being H. Nicholls. Details of the 
racing are as follows : — 

OzfB Mile. 

Heat 1.— F. L. Adam, London, beat 0. D. Day, Cam- 
bridge, by 10 yards in 3 min. 1 sec. Adam went ahead in 
the last lap in spite of a fly, which, finding its way into his 
left eye, almost prevented him from seeing the course, and 
subsequently in the Four Miles Race hampered him very 
considerably. 

Heat 2.— A. B. W. Whatton, Cambridge, beat J. D. 
Butler, London, by 3 yards in 3 min. 4 sees. Our man led 
till last lap, when Whatton went to the fore, though Butler 
spurted gamely. 

Heat 3.— Wyndham, London, beat C. A. S. Pollock, 
Cambridge, by 12 yards in 3 min. 4| sec. Our man led 
throughout, and went away in the last lap. 

Foua Miles. 

London. Cambridge. 

1. — G.P.Beck 6 — 

2. — C. A. S. PoUock — 6 

8.— J. D. Butler 4 — 

4. — A. B. W. Whatton ^ ^8 

5. *F. B. Wertoott — 2 

6. — F.L,Adam 1 — 

11 points 10 pointa 

Digitized by 



126 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



This was a fine race, the men being close up throughout. 
At the end of the first mile Beck took the leading place, 
which ho held to the finish, completing the whole distance 
in the good time of 12 min. 26j sec, being separated from 
the last man by not more than 14 yards. It may be noted 
that the time for this race is 12|8ec. better than that for 
the same race over the same course in 1881, and is 438ec. 
better than that for the corresponding race last year. 
Whatton was reported to have been shut out, but then 
Adam's mishap prevented him from doing full justice to 
his powers, so we may not speculate too freely upon what 
would have happened had things been otherwise. The 
first mile was done in 3min. 18sec, Westcott leading, 
closely followed by Adam and the rest of the field ; two 
miles were ridden in 6min. 26sec., the order being Beck, 
Adam, Westcott ; three miles in 9min. 32sec., the order 
being Beck, Westcott, Adam. 

Fifteen Miles. 

. London. Gftmbridge. 

1. — W. Wyndham 6 — 

2. — G. D. Day — 5 

8.— H. R. Reynolds 4 — 

4.— M. H. Jephson 3 — 

6.— L. 0. Carr — 2 

6.— E. J. P. Olive — 1 

18 points 8 points. 

In this race again very good time was made ; since it 
was run in 3min. 41|sec. less than was occupied in 1881 in 
completing the distance over the same course, and was 
2min. Ofsec. better than the time of last year. 

The time of the first man, who was about 25 yards in 
front of the last competitor on finishing his 15th mile, was 
47min. 18f8ec. 

The time at the end of each mile, with the order of 
the men, are appended: — 

Time. 
Mile. Min. Sec 

1 8 10 Reynolds, Wyndham, Jephson, Carr, Day, Olive. 

2 .... 6 4 Jephson, Day, Carr, Wyndham, Reynolds, Olive. 
8 9 10 Jephson, Day, Wyndham, Carr, Olive, Reynolds. 

4 12 15 Jephson, Day, Carr, Wyndham, Reynolds, Olive. 

5 15 21 Jephson, Day, Wyndham, Carr, Olive, Reynolds. 

6 18 85 Jephson, Day, Carr, Wyndham, Reynolds, Olive. 

7 21 45 Carr, Day, Jephson, Wyndham, Reynolds, Olive. 

8 25 6 Wyndham, Jephson, Day, Carr, Olive, Reynolds. 

9 28 18 Jephson, Day, Carr, Olive, Wyndham, Reynolds. 

10 81 30 Wyndham, Day, Jephson, Olive, Carr, Reynolds. 

11 34 52 Reynolds, Day, Jephson, Wyndham, Carr, Olive. 

12 88 7 Reynolds, Jephson, Day, Wyndham, Carr, Olive. 

18 41 24 Wyndham, Day, Carr, Olive, Jephson, Reynolds. 

14 44 22 Jephson, Day, Wyndham, Reynolds, Carr, Olive. 

15 47 18{ Wyndham, Day, Reynolds, Jephson, Carr, Olive. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
It blew a small gale at Oxford on the 5th, when the 
Inter-Varsity Races were held. This, no doubt, favoured 
the home team, who knew the track, and could negotiate it 
better under such circumstances than the Cambridge men. 



I never saw a more brilliant and better sustained spurt 
than Buckley's in the Ten Miles. He simply walked away 
from his men in the commencement of the eighth mile, and 
went on increasing his lead until the finish. At a large 
and enthusiastic meeting this would have meant^a trium- 
phal progress to the dressing room on the shoulders of 

frantic admirers. 

• # # • • • 

What a contrast to the Bicycle Union Championship 
Meeting at Leicester in 1881, when the same rider was 
allowed 75 yards start in the One Mile Handicap ! 

• »•«•• 

And what sincere regret there is to think that he may not 
be able to compete for any of the Championships of 1883. 

• ••«•• 

Day's fall within fifty yards of home, after a finely con- 
tested race, in which he uniformly maintained second place, 
was most unfortunate. The exact cause is not known, but I 
think he leant too far forward in his sudden anxiety to keep 
ahead of Adam who was just on level terms with him when 
he feU. 

*••«•* 

J. R. Walter was very little hurt after his fall in the first 
lap of the two miles funeral procession. 

Many L.B.C. men were on the ground, and Stephen 
Smith was Referee and C. A. Pollock one of the Judges, his 
colleague being the Rev. W. D*A. Crofton. 

• «•••• 

Buckley was rowing in the Christchurch boat, and is now 
in training with the four for Henley, with a day off" for 
the L.B.C. match. 

** That's where the corpses go," said a C3mical Cambridge 
man as he assisted Day, after his smash at Oxford, to a 
full length position on the long table in the Pavilion, to 
which Douglas Smith had been carried two nights before. 
There were three accidents while the C.U.Bi.C. team was 
at Oxford. 

Day's pluck in coming out again on behalf of his Club 
four days after his fall was on every tongue on Saturday. 
The fifteen miles was his last race, and his genial company 
and pretty style will be greatly missed at Cambridge and 
elsewhere. 

*««*«« 

The meeting of the Pickwick B.C. at the Crystal Palace 
on Saturday last was a great contrast to the West Kent 
meeting a fortnight before, in weather, times, and atten- 
dances. While at the West Kent only two heats were run 
under 3 minutes, and the scratch man could not do better 
than 3min. 7sec., last Saturday it was the exception for 
heats to take more than 2min. SOsec. ; and Thompson, of 
the Sutton B.C., with 20 yards, did three miles equal to 
2min. 48^860., 2min. 48sec., 2min. 49sec., from scratch. 



Coogle 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



127 



The Open Mile was won by Frosti of tlie Brixton 
Ramblers B.C., with 120 yards start, who oddly enough 
was a' " fastest loser in the first round, and also the 
''fastest loser" in the second round, third in his heat; 
Mayes, (120 yards start), Centaur B.C., was second, beaten 
by a foot ; Hay, (55 yards start), third, a foot behind ; 
while Thompson, (20 yards start), was close up. The 
handicapping was a triumph for the Union handicapper, 
as the second round also gave some very good finishes. 
««•••• 

The only London men riding were W. E. Adam from 
scratch, and Leeds with 80 yards start, but neither was 
successful. Adam was asked to do 2min. 47fsec. in his 
heat. 

• ••••• 

In the Tricycle Invitation Race (half mile), Liles ulti- 
mately won by five yards from Radford of the L.B.C. and 
L.T.C. in 1 miu. 40jf sec. ; but in the heat Liles v, Lowndes, 
in which some swerving occurred, the time was 1 min. 
32| sec, and Radford did 1 min. 32^ sec. in his heat. 
Tricycling records are suffering. 

♦ • ♦ • , # • 

The C.U.Bi.C. held their Club Races on Monday last. 
The chief feature on the programme was the Five Miles 
Invitation Race, which resulted in a dead heat between 
Whish and Palmer, the latter coming up with a tremen- 
dous rush at the finish : A. B. W. Whatton was third, 
25 yards behind ; and Wyndham fourth. The time was 
poor, 16min. 35sec., though the last quarter of a mile was 
done in 38|sec. 

Thb Fkont Wheel Hub. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
Sir, — As an Essex calf, I beg to protest most emphatically 
against an expression of " Porcupine's," in the last isssue 
of the Gazette, about " Essex Flats and Essex Mole Hills." 
Does " Porcupine " know the road from four miles beyond 
Cambridge to Linton, and on through Sible, Hedingham, 
and Halstead to Lexham, near Colchester? Flat ! ! ! The 
scenery is not touched within the four seas ; and where 
there is any level, it is to allow the cyclist to enjoy a road 
which goes through avenues of glorious trees, like a magni- 
ficent park. Does *' Porcupine " know the view from a gate 
near Stondou ? The valley of Ongar first, and the ridge 
of hill beyond is something that even my father, who loves 
the pavement of Oxford Street, and was heard to remark 
last winter when following the hounds on foot along a 
muddy lane, that he wished there were some nice flagstones 
under foot, went into positive raptures over. " Mole Hills," 
indeed ! Has " Porcupine " ridden up South Weald, or 
Theydon Bois hills?— I mean the one between Theydon 



and Epping, not that between Theydon and the "Wake 
Arms." I grant that there is a narrow strip of fiat by the 
river by Tilbury. 

May I be pardoned for telling a little tale ? An uncle 
of mine was telling me the other day of some dreadful 
property he knew of in Essex which the proprietor left to 
someone in his will, saddled with a condition that the 
happy recipient should live there six months in the year, 
as the heir presumptive had been heard to say, that nothing 
would ever make him live in the place. I remarked, the 
property must have been near Tilbury. " Well," said my 
uncle, " I don't know the geography of Essex. The place 
was near Orsett." — Yours, etc., 

C. H. F. Christie. 



THE LAWN TENNIS QUESTION. 
To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sm, — Without attempting to criticise the wisdom of 
the Club identifying itself with the Lawn Tennis movement, 
I should like to offer a few remarks on the subject. I 
would remind the stern disciplinarian, who will own to but 
one permissible mania — that of the wheel — that it is not 
possible for everyone to keep going at a perpetual high 
state of pressure." Dulce est desipere in loco;" which, 
for his benefit, I will translate " It is pleasant to play Lawn 
Tennis occasionally." At the same time it cannot be 
denied that there are many objections that may be urged 
against our thus openly and officially encouraging a rival 
pastime. Men may not indeed play their ties on Saturday 
afternoons and evenings, but their is nothing to hinder 
their practising then for their matches; and who will 
guarantee that in giving a tournament we are not nourishing 
a viper, which, if we cannot crush altogether, we ought 
certainly to keep under as much as possible ? 

The promoters themselves must own that their venture 
at present stands on a very slender basis. It rests with 
them, and with those who have followed them through the 
gap, to show that so far from keeping men away from 
Saturday runs, the tournament has actually an opposite 
tendency in that it increases good fellowship among our 
members. Several of those whose names appear in the 
list of entries have been but very feeble supporters of their 
District, and it is said that there is one man who has not 
attended a single Club run this year. One thing is certain, 
that we ought not to run the risk of wounding the suscep- 
tibilities of some of our most zealous members, if those, at 
the instance of whom the iron rule is relaxed, cannot by 
their conduct assure us that in holding a lawn-tennis 
tournament, we are not in any way running counter to the 
primary interests of our bicycling community. 

Dodo. 



Digitized by 



128 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



O.U.BlO. v. L.B.a 
One Milb Racb. 
Heat 1.— W. Wyndham (L), 1 ; W. A. G. Walter (0.), 2. 
Time, 2 min. 54} sec. Won by 10 yards. 

Heat 2.— F. L. Adam (L.), 1 ; M. H. Jephson (0.), 2. 
Time, 2 min. 61 i sec. Won by a length. 

Heat 3.— W. K. Adam (0.). 1 ; A B. W. Whatton (L), 2. 
Time, 3 min. 11} sec. Won easily. 

FouB MiLBS Baoe. 

G. F. Beck (L.), 1 ; R L. Adam (L.), 2 ; W. A. G. 
Walter (0.), 3 ; M. H. Jephson (0.), 4 ; J. D. Butler (L), 
5 ; G. Stapleton (0.), 6. Time, 12 min. 24 sec. 

The L.B.G. team thus won by 18 points to 8. 
FiFTEBN MuEs Race. 

H. R. Reynolds (L.), 1 ; W. Wyndham (L.), 2 ; 0. Thorn, 
(L), 3 ; W. K. Adam, (0.), 4 ; W. A G. Walter (0.), 6 ; 
W. M. Merry (0.), 6. Time, 47 min. 80} sec. 

The L.B.C. team thus won by 15 points to 6. 

(FuU particulars wilt appear next week) 



QUILLS. 

ArifltoCle and Pliny deUrer it that the pmpentine easteth off his qnillB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, bat Dioaooridea affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe if'^ir T. Bbownb. 

The Water's Meet at Lynmouth is said to be one of the 
finest things of the kind, but I hear from one who has seen 
both that it was surpassed on Saturday by the meet qf the 
Freddy Williams' at East Grinstead. Whatever the latter 
scene may have lacked in the picturesque it more than made 

up for in dramatic significance, 

• ••••• 

A bowl of punch was, I hear, brewed at East Grinstead 
in honour of the success of our men at Cambridge, and the 
healths of the victorious J|md drunk enthusiastically. 

" Scott," the S.E. Golle3vl^red his first attendance this 

year on Saturday last. 

• • • • • * 

The W. and S.W. Districts (in their proposed state gf 
amalgamation) were represented by quality rather than 
quantity, in the person of th^ Ex-Editor. ^ 

" Speed on my bi, speed on," sang Jack Kinder, but with 
a cracked back-bone the bi could hardly be expected to 
answer to his appeal. 

The joint Meet, to be held at Gliigwell on Saturday week, 
promises well. The N.R, I hear, are going to beat record ; 
several of their oldest members will attend, and many a 
conscience will be eased of a load of broken promises. 
There will also be a counter move on the part of the S.E., 

who are determined to revenge Erith. 

• ••«*• 

The watersplash at Navestock did not suit the N.E. 
" Sociable ; " one of its occupants getting his shoes full of 
water. This accounts for the persistence with which he 
advocated another way home. Pobcupinb. 



EACING FIXTURES. 

Bnle 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
wlthont f>enninion from the Captain. The f oUowing list of Bacing 
Fizturee has been snbmitted to the Captain, who sanctions oar 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not inclnded in this list is requested 
to oommnnicate with the Cn^tain. 

June 16.— London B.C. Baces at Crystal Palace. 
16. — Private Banks at Catford Bridge. 
19. — University College Hospital at Stamford 
Bridge. 

23.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapbam B.C. at Crystal Palace. 

28.— Rovers B.C. at Crystal Palace.. Evening Bace 



30. — Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birmingham. 
30. — ^A.A.A. Championships atLillie Bridge. 
30.— Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 

7. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
7. — ^B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle 

Championships at Birmingham. 
7. — ^Lewjsham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
7. — ^Belgrave B.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
10. — National Temperance League — ^Band of Hope 
Union. Two Miles Open, at Crystal Palace. 
Entries close June 30th. 
14. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Pahice. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 
Palace. 

25.— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
Sept. 15.— Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



Editobul Note.— We regret that at the time of going to 
press no account of the N.W. run has been received. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
58-in. Humber." Racer ; ball bearings, 26-in. handle- 
bar well bent dowo, in good condition. £7 lOs. L. B. 
Reynolds, 10, Adelaide Crescent, Brighton. 



CHANGE OP ADDRESS. 
E. R. Shipton, 139-140, Fleet Street, E.C. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be reoeiYed not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dabuno Sl Son, at the Bfinerva Steam 
Printing Office, S5, Eastcheap, London, £.0.— ^nne li, 1888. 



Digitized by 



Google 



9 

An Official Kecobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VL No. 16.] ^''™^id^Ti^^l^^^^^^ JxJNE 21, 1883. 



OONT 

PAGE 



The Annual B«ce Meeting 129 

Notices 181 

LJB.C. r. O.U.BLC 182 

Club Meets 182 

Bicyding in Switzerland — Conclnsion .'. 1 33 



NOTIOB. 

The latest hour for reception of oopy for "Qazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



THE ANNUAL RACE MEETING. 

In spite of threatening clouds in the morning, the clerk 
of the weather so far favoured us as not to inflict on us 
more than one sharp thunderstorm during the afternoon, 
and that was reserved for the last mile of the last race of 
the day. A rather strong wind blew in gusts, but the times 
were decidedly good. Though the want of a seated grand 
stand was much remarked on, a large number of ladies were 
present, and altogether the first meeting at the Crystal 
Palace must be pronounced a sporting and artistic success ; 
the fiuancial results are not yet ascertained. 

We give full details of the racing below. The final heat 
of the Open Handicap resulted in a magnificent race, 
though we trust that the Committee will not start seven in 
a heat next year. As it was, the six men together in the 
last lap ran great risk ; F. L. Adam scarcely got through, 
Thompson was shut out for a little while, and Perry lost a 
prize through crowding at the finish. We also earnestly 
hope that the objectionable practice of men who are not 
the judge, and who often are not in a line with the tape, at 
once announcing authoritatively that so-and-so has won, or 
is second, before the judge has given his decision, will be 
discarded in future. There were one or two very bad 
cases of this from men who ought to have known better, at 
the final of the Two Miles Open Handicap. 



ENTS. 

PAOB 

On the Track 184 

Racing Fixtores ^85 

Qunis « 186 

Notices ; 186 

Notice to Correspondents 136 



The Five Miles Scratch was brilliantly won by Gaskell, 
though we think if Buckley had been there he might have 
won by half a lap, if so minded. 

In the Club events Wyndham was very unlucky; a 
spoke broke at the start for the Ladies' Challenge Cup, and 
in the District Ten Miles, riding a strange machine, he 
missed his treadle in the last 50 yards, when nearly level 
with W. K, Adam, who won in the fastest time yet made 
in this race. W. C. Oswald was "thrown in" for the 
Members' Mile, with 200 yards, our men not being equal 
to 2.44, or thereabouts, and this was the only handicapping 
mistake throughout the afternoon. 

The following, besides the Committee, acted as officials :— 
Judge — W. Cornell ; Starter — ^Arthur Adams ; Timekeeper — 
G. P. Coleman ; Referees— G. L. Hillier and M. D. 
Rucker, Jun. ; Lap Takers— H. G. A. Brown and W. A. 
Smith; Clerks of the Course— A. E Buckler, T. E. 
Scrutton, C. Newman, and S. P. Smith ; Handicappers— 
The Race Committee. 

The Crystal Palace Band played a selection of music 
during the afternoon. 

After the races Mrs. F. M. Williams presented the prizes, 
and the meeting broke up after three cheers for the ladies. 
Two Miles Scbatch. — (Ladies' Challenge Cup.) 

W. K. Adam, 1 ; G. F. Beck, 2 ; 0. Thorn, 3 ; W. Wynd- 
ham, 0. A great deal of interest was lost by Wyndham 
breaking a spoke at the start, and having to retire im- 
mediately. At the completion of the first mile, Thorn 
waggled and went to the front, but was passed agam by 



Digitized by 



130 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Adam two laps from the finish. Beck then came up, but 
could not get by Adam, who won by ten yards. Time, 
6 min. 2| sec. 

One Mile Handioap. 

Heat 1. — H. R. Reynolds, 50 yards start, 1 ; S. Herbert, 
200, 2. Reynolds caught Herbert on entering the last lap, 
and won as he pleased. Time, 3 min. 3^ sec. 

Heat 2.— W. 0. Oswald, 200 yards start, 1 ; H. Smith, 
40, 2 ; L. B. Reynolds, 70, 3 ; W. K. Adam, scratch, ; 
H. Q. A. Brown, 110, 0. As was expected, after Oswald's 
trial on Thursday evening, he won very easily, H. Smith 
just beating Reynolds for second place. Time, 2 min. 
48| sec. 

Heat 3.— M. H. Jephson, 20 yards start, I ; C. A. Brown, 
60, 2 ; G. P. Coleman, 150, 3 ; H. M. Hewitt, 95, 4 ; 
S. P. Smith, 200, 0. The popular Handicapper soon took 
the lead, which he kept till 150 yards from home, when 
Jephson drew up, and won by ten yards from Brown, wha 
just beat Coleman, Time, 2 min. 57f sec. 

Heat 4.— 0. G. M. Leeds, 90 yards start, 1 ; F. L. Adam, 
15, 2. Leeds was never troubled, and won easily. Time, 
3 min. If sec. 

Heat 5.— 0. Thorn, 60 yards start, 1 ; G. F. Beck, 30, 2 ; 
C. Wigan, 100, 3 ; R. G. Francis, 160, 0. This proved the 
most exciting heat. Beck soon drew up to Thorn, and the 
pair caught Wigan in th^ last lap; Beck looked like 
winning, but Thorn came with a grand spurt and won by 
a length. Time, 3 min. 3| sec. 

Final Heat.—W. C. Oswald, 200 yards start, 1 ; H. R. 
Reynolds, 50, 2 ; 0. Thorn, 60, 3 ; H. Smith (fastest loser, 
heat 2), 40, 4 ; C. A. Brown (fastest loser, heat 3), 60, ; 
M. H. Jephson, 20, ; 0. G. M. Leeds, 90, 0. Oswald had 
matters all his own way, and won by about sixty yards. 
Reynolds soon got into second place, which he retained, 
0. Thorn just beating Harold Smith by a foot for third 
place. Time, 2 min. 44f sec. 

Two Miles Handicap.— (Open.) 

Heat 1. — A. Thompson, Sutton, 30 yards start, 1 ; 
M. H. Jephson, L.B,C., 75, 2 ; L. B. Reynolds, L.B.C., 
160, 3; D. Albone, B. & W.C.C., 150, 0; G. R. Oxx, 
Surrey, 200, 0. Thompson took the lead 600 yards from 
home, but Jephson was not to be shaken off, and an exciting 
race resulted in Thompson winning by four yards ; L. B. 
Reynolds being third. Time, 6 min. 5| sec. 

Heat 2.— H. R. Reynolds, L.B.C., 110 yards start, 1 ; 
C. D. Vesey, Surrey, 80, 2 ; E. G. Frazer-Luckie, O.U.Bi.C., 
155, 0. Vesey got off well, and heading Reynolds immediate- 
ly, made the pace till half way round the last lap but one, 
when Reynolds, by a magnificent spurt, walked away from 
him and won as he liked. Frazer-Luckie retired, as his 
treadle became loose goon after starting. Time, 5 min. 
58f sec. 

Heat 3.— F. L. Adam, L.B.C,, 75 yards start 1 ; C. King, 
Salisbury, 40, 2 ; W. A. G. Walter, O.U.Bi.C., 100, 3; F. S. 



Buckingham, Brixton Ramblers, 160, 0. When the bell rang, 
all the four were together, but Adam quickened up and 
took the lead, followed by King, the other two falling behind. 
Adam continued to gain and finished ten yards in front of 
King. Time, 6 min. 3f sec. 

Heat 4.— H. W. Gaskell, Ranelagh Harriers, scratch, 1 ; 
W. Wyndham, L.B.C., 70 yards start, 2 ; J. E. Phillips, 
L.A.C., 160, 3 ; W. Agate, Surrey, 170, ; C. W. Coe, 
Brixton Ramblers, 150, ; R. A. Woolnough, Rovers, 95,0. 
Gaskell got up two laps from home and passed Wyndham 
half way round the last lap. Time, 5 min. 57| sec. 

Heat 5.— J. D. Butler, L.B.C., 120 yards start, 1 ; 
T. H. Hewitt, Chiswick B.C., 180," 2 ; R. Dover, Brixton 
Ramblers B.C., 160, 3; W. K. Adam, L.B.C., 55, 0; 
C. W. Fagan, C.U.Bi.C., 160, 0. Hewitt maintained the 
lead till 200 yards from the finish, when Butler passed him 
and won by a length. Time, 5min. 59isec. 

Heat 6.— R E S. Perry, Crighton B.C., 70 yards 
start, 1; L. C. Carr, C.U.Bi.C, 120, 2; H. B. Clayson, 
Brixton B.C., 160, 3 ; H. Walker, Rovers B.C., 150, ; 
H. E. R. Huber, introduced, 180, 0. Carr obtained the 
lead at the end of the mile, but Perry soon passed him. 
Carr, however, stuck to his man, and was only beaten 
by a yard and a half. Time, 6min. Of sec. 

Final Heat.— H. R. Reynolds, L.B.C., 110 yards start, 1 ; 
F. L. Adam, L.B.C., 75, 2; J. D. Butler, L.B.C., 120, 3; 
F. E. S. Perry, Crighton B.C., 70, 4 ; W. Wyndham, L.B.C., 
70, ; A. Thompson, Sutton B.C., 30, ; H. W. Gaskell, 
scratch, 0. Thompson got off well, and very soon got 
amongst the others, who were well together. Gaskell did 
not appear to improve his position, and gave up half a mile 
from the finish. At the end of the first mile Thompson 
was leading, but Reynolds immediately displaced him, and 
he in turn gave way to Perry at the beginning of the last 
lap but one, half way round which Wyndham was leading. 
When the bell rang Reynolds spurted to the fore, and 
Adam, who was last but one, now came up with a fine turn 
of speed, and, passing his men, finished second to Reynolds ; 
J. D. Butler was third, about 3 inches behind Adam, and 
Perry fourth. Time, 5min. 50|sec. 

Ten Miles Race fob the District Challenge Cup. 

W. K Adam, S.R District, 1 ; W. Wyndliam, 
S.E. District, 2 ; A. B. W. Whatton, W. District, 3 ; 
M. H. Jephson, W. District, 4 ; 0. Thorn, W. District, 5 ; 
H. R. Reynolds, S.E. District, 6; H. Smith, N.E. 
District, ; E. A Weeks, N.E. District, ; S. G. Hough,, 
N.E. District, 0. With the exception of the two N.E. 
road-riders, who soon fell to the rear and retired, the race 
was most interesting, all the competitors, bar Reynolds, 
the methodical, taking it in turns to make the pace. On 
completing the eighth mile Harold Smith dropped behind, 
and gave up soon after. Just before completing the ninth 
mile Reynolds came up and took first place, and the ex- 
citement now became intense, as the six representatives of 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



131 



the two rival Districts were all well together. Two and 
a half laps from home Jephson led, with Whattoir next, 
Adam, however, spurted when the bell rang, and went 
ahead, with Wyndham in close pursuit, and a splendid 
finish was spoiled by Wyndham losing his treadle ; A. B. W. 
Whatton was third, 20 yards behind. Time, Slmin. 54|sec. 
Laflt mile^ 2min. 55|8ec. ; last lap 45|sec. 

Leaders and Time for each Mile. 

Time. 

Mne. Hin. Sec 

1 3 11| Thorn, Jephson, Adam, Wyndham. 

2 6 18f Smith, Jephson, Wyndham, Adam. 

3 9 33J Jephson, Thorn, Adam, Smith. 

4 12 47^ Adam, Smith, Whatton, Jephson. 

5 16 4 Wyndham, Adam, Whatton, Smith. 

6 19 25| Thorn, Adam, Smith, Jephson. 

7 22 40} Jephson, Wyndham, Adam, Smith. 

8 25 46f Jephson, Adam, Wyndham, Whatton. 

9 28 59| Beynolds, Jephson, Whatton, Adam. 

10 31 54^ Adam, Wyndham, Whatton, Jephson. 

Five Milbs Soeatch.— (Open.) 
H. W. Gaskell, Eanelagh Harriers, B.C., 1 ; A, Thompson, 
Sutton, B.C., 2 ; 0. King, Salisbury, B.C., 3 ; C. D. Vesey^ 
Surrey B.C., 4 ; P. J. McKinlay, Beckenham B.C., ; J. c! 
Tacagni, City of London B.C., ; B. A. Woolnough, Rovers 
B.C., 0. On the pistol being fired Gaskell quickly as^med 
the lead, but soon gave way to McKinlay, who made the 
pace for the greater part of the distance. On entering 
the last mile all were well together, and at the half-mile 
King held the lead, which he maintained till half-way round 
the last lap, when Gaskell shot by, and, gaining gradually, 
won somewhat easily by 20 yards ; a good race for second 
place resulted in Thompson just beating King by a yard 
and a half. Time, one mile, 3 min. 4j- sec. ; two, 6 min. 
18^ sec. ; three, 9 min. 36 sec.. ; four, 12 min. 50f sec. \ 
five, 15 min. 48| sec. 

SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING. 

The above was called for Monday last at 6.30 at the 
" City Arms Tavern," a quorum of thirty being required by 
the rules. After waiting for fifty minutes, however, only 
twenty-four members put in an appearance, tliirteen of 
whom were officials and committeemen, and the Captain 
dissolved the meeting, announcing that the agenda would 
stand over to the Ordinary General Meeting next January. 

Present : Officials and Committee,— k, W. Barrett, T. B. 
Scrutton, E. S. Price, P. M. Williams, P. Jolly, E. H. Barrett, 
W. J. Williams, H. C. Pigott, C. Newman, R. G. Francis, 
G. P. Coleman, A. Lloyd, S. P. Smith. 

Private Members, — H. R. Re3nttolds, J. S. and A. B. W, 
Whatton, F. H. Williams, J. Potter, A. L. Radford, A. Hawley, 
E. A. Weeks, M. D. Rucker, H. Jackson, and S. G. Hough. 

N.W. DISTRICT. 
Mr. A. H. Lown is now our District Captain. This has 
not been officially announced before, owing to an omission 
on my part. E. S. Pmcb, Hon. Sec. 



SPECIAL NOTICE. 
Members who have not used the ticket for the Annual 
Race Meeting sent round with the Qazette are particularly 
requested to forward them to me at once, as we have to pdy 
the Palace for aU tickets not returned. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



N.W. DISTRICT.— IMPORTANT. 

I have agreed with our new D.C. to take his place for the 
next two Saturdays. After the miserable failures of the last 
few weeks, it is not too much for me to ask and expect that 
members will turn up in something like respectable numbers. 
The average attendance at present must be the 'oery worst 
the N.W. has ever had. Lawn Tennis and the River I 
know have great attractions, but the old Club must not be 
forsaken altogether. 

We shall meet at Jack Straw's " 4 o'clock, Hendon Sta- 
tion 4.30, riding to the "Green Man," Kingsbury, where we 
shall join the W. and ride together to Stanmore. The run 
is short, so some members might attend, and by not staying 
to tea get home again in time for some tennis, etc. 

W. J. Williams, for D.C. 

S.E. DISTRICT. 
The Croydon Division will leave the Fire Station at 
4 o'clock punctually, and proceed straight to Lewisham 
Church, where Stephen Smith will be ready at 3.30 to show 
• the way to the ferry at Woolwich. The Blackheath Division 
will muster at the " Hare & Billet " at 4.45, and meet the 
Croydon men on Blackheath Common. As our last meet 
with the N.E. was more or less of a failure, I hope the district 
will do their best to obliterate the remembrance.of it by a 
brilliant success. We shall have tea at the " King's Head," 
Chigwell, about half-past six. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

WEST DISTRICT. 
On Saturday next I confidently anticipate a large muster 
at Stanmore, as we meet the N.W. District there. In order 
to ride some part of the route in company, we are going to 
meet the N.W. at the "Green Man," Kingsbury, at 4.45, 
so that members starting late will have an opportunity of 
catching up the District at this place, where we shall halt 
for a quarter of an hour. We then proceed by the lanes to 
Stanmore, where tea will be obtained at the "Abercorn 
Arms." All members are expected to come, as the run is 
short, and the route a pleasant one. And I therefore hope 
that members will not be beguiled into attending the 
S.W. run to the Silent Pool, which is altogether too far, 
and has none of those attractions so enticingly held out by 
the S.W. D.C. In fact, those who go will be disappointed 
at riding so far and seeing so little. Now, Stanmore is 
quite diflferent. A comfortable ride, good scenery, and a 
model hostelry are only a few of the inducements I hold 
out, and wi£h doubtful weather in view, no member can 
have two opinions as to the better place. 

Harold C. Pigott, District Captain. 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



. STAMFORD BRIDGE GUARANTEE FUND. 

Members will remember that at the General Meeting I 
undertook to find twenty-five men willing to accept a con- 
tingent liability to the amount of 10s. each, in order to 
free the Club from the charge of £12 12s. Od. due to the 
L.A.C. for the rent of Stamford Bridge on June 30th. I 
had no difficulty in obtaining these twenty-five names and 
did not then try to get more. It has now become probable 
that I shall have to call upon the guarantors to redeem 
their promises, but before doing so I wish to ask if there 
are other members who are willing to add their names. I 
think it is not too much to expect that twenty-five more 
members may be willing to subscribe, in which case the 
liability of each would only be 5s. Names will be received 
by me, 

Stephen P. Smith. 

9, Morden Road, Blackheath, S.E. 



L.B.C. V. O.U.Bi.C. 
The above match, the bare particulars of which appeared 
last week, took place on the Crystal Palace track on Wed- 
nesday the 13th inst., in weather which was considered 
favourable to fast times. There was a very good attendance 
of members, particularly of the S.E. District, who took ad- 
vantage of the convenient locality and turned up in great 
force. Great was the disappointment and regret expressed 
when it was found, on arrival at the track, that Buckley 
had been placed hors de combat by an unfortunate accident 
on the Oxford track the evening before. This was a severe 
loss for the 'Varsity, though it would not have altered the 
ultimate result of the match. The J udges were G. L. Hillier 
and C. H. F. Christie ; starter, Ashley Barrett ; timekeeper, 
G. P. Coleman ; while T. E. Scrutton made an efficient 
telegraph boy. 

One Mile Race. 

Heat 1.— W. Wyndham, LB.C, 1 ; W. A. G. Walter, 
O.U.Bi.C., 2. Walter made the pace till 200 yards from 
home, when Wyndham drew out, and, gaining gradually, 
won by 15 yards. Time, 2 min. 54f sec. 

Heat 2.— R L. Adam, L.B.C., 1; M. H. Jephson, 
O.U.Bi.C, 2. This heat was well contested. Jephson got 
off with the lead, which he held till the bell rang, when 
Adam spurted and gained the lead, which he increased to 
15 yards at the flag-post. Jephson then came again^ but 
could not quite get up. Adam winning an exciting race by 
a length. Time, 2 min. 51 j sec. 



Heat 3.— W. K. Adam, O.U.Bi.C., 1 ; A. B. W. Whatton, 
L.B.G., 2. Each rider wanted the other to make the pace, 
consequently the first lap was walked, amidst great laughter 
in 73 sec. Adam then went ahead, and increasing his lead 
in the last lap, he won by 15 yards. Time, 3 min. 11} sec. 
Four Miles Raob. 

G. F. Beck, L.B.C., 1 ; F. L. Adam, L.B.C., 2 ; W. A. G. 
Walter, O.U.Bi.O., 3 ; M. H. Jephson, O.U.Bi.C., 4 ; J. D. 
Butler, L.B.C., 5; G. Stapleton, O.U.BLC, 6. Jephson 
made the pace, and at the end of the first mile was leading ; 
all the others wdl together. Beck whipping in. Towards 
the end of the seobnd mile Beck ran into first place, with 
Butler next and Walter third, lliis order was maintained 
till the bell rang, when Jephson ran up to Beck, but was 
beaten off. F. L. Adam then made his effort, coming up 
in fine style, though he could not get by Beck who won by 
three yards. Walter was third, just in front of Jephson. 
Time, 12 min. 24f sec. London thus scored thirteen points 
to Oxford's eight. 

Fifteen Miles Rage. 

H. R. Iteynolda, L.B.C., 1 ; W. Wyndham, L.B.C., 2 ; 
0. Thorn. L.RC., 8 ; W. K. Adam, O.U.BLC, 4; W. A. 
G. Walter, O.U.BiiC, 5 ; W. M. Merry, O.U.BLC, 6. 

Reynolds commenced to cut out the pace, and at the 
completion of the second lap Wyndham spurted, but gave 
way to Thorn who was leading at the completion of the 
mile. All the competitors kept well together, and each in 
turn, bar Adam, acted as pace maker. At the end of the 
thirteenth mile, which, strange to say, was completed in 
exactly the same time as the same distance in the fifteen 
miles race against Cambridge, Reynolds was leading, with 
Wyndham next, and Thorn third. Reynolds kept the lead 
and held his own against Wyndham, who spurted hard at 
the finbh, and could not get nearer than 3 yards. Thorn, 
who is riding in very good form at present, was only 
2 yards behind Wyndham. Time, 47min. 30 jsec. London 
thus scoring fifteen points to Oxford's six. 

After the races Iwenty-two men sat down to dinner, and 
a very pleasant evening was spent, in the course of which 
Ashley Barrett proposed the health of the Oxford Club, 
and referred to the regret they all felt at Buckley's mis- 
fortune; he also complimented Walter on his pluck in 
riding in the three events. The toast was responded to by 
Walter. Stephen Smith then proposed the visitors, which 
was answered briefly by W. B. Tanner, G. L. Hillier, and 
J. S. Whatton. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Dftle. N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


aw. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.£. 

Blackheath Division. 


. I^Lea Bridge RcL3.S0 
^ 1 and Syborn's Comer 
g 1 8.45, for Criowkll. 
*-» 1 Meet S.£. 


8.45, "Jaok Straw's 
Cattle,'' for Stam- 
MOBB. Meet W. 


3.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MiU HiU Kd., 
Acton, for Stan- 
MOBB. ("Crown.") 
Meet N.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.0, for Nbw- 
land's Cobnbb 
and the SnjUT 

Pool. 


8.45, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
CmowxLL. Meet 
NJE. 


"Hare & Bmet," 
4.45,forCHiowiLL. 
MeetKJ:. 



Googl( 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



133 



BICYCLING IN SWITZERLAND. 

(OONTIHUXD raOM PAQB 125, AND CONCLUDED.) 

§ 24. — Things in General 
The two summers in which I have heen bicycling in 
Switzerland have neither of them contained any long periods 
of hot settled weather, and I have had to contend with 
alternations of mud and hard-baked ruts rather than with 
dust. I cannot therefore quite say hoif far in an ordinary 
summer the dust will be found a serious inconvenience. 
Undoubtedly some roads which are badly mended, such as 
the Khone Valley Boad and its extensions over the Simplon 
and Furka, will be found very dusty ia a dry season ; but 
as regards the generality of Swiss roads they are mended 
with such excellent stone that there is no danger of their 
" going to pieces in a drought, as many, if not most of our 
English roads do. One great merit oCa Swiss road is that 
you will almost always find a good run ahng the extreme edge 
of it, the sidings being kept remarkably smooth and clean. 

In the less mountainous districts you will often find the 
road raised on a regular embankment like a railway, for 
the sake of avoiding depressions, etc.; These are the bits 
of road on which even more care is required in passing 
vehicles, etc., than on the hilly mountain roads, for here 
you have two steep banks, one on each hand, and not merely 
one ; the risk to vehicles is therefore doubled. 

In riding on long hills, such as those to be met with in 
Switzerland, it is surprising to observe the di£ference between 
the real and the apparent gradient. * fSo one going up ahill^ 
whenever a fairly long reach of it is in view, the gradient 
always looks less steep than it really is. The only way of 
estimating it is to turn round and look doum the hill. On 
the other hand, if you come to a comer, especially if the 
road curves round it in a cutting between two banks, the 
up gradient is apparently exaggerated, and you would think 
the hill is getting steeper, although the gradient may be 
perfectly uniform. This deceptiver phenomenon may be 
observed on a small scale on our Circular Bacing Track, in 
Cambridge, where, if you stand on it in the cutting beneath 
the judge's box and look in either direction, you would 
think that the path went up hill, though it is really an 
absolute level. 

Whether it is due to the chronic roar of the mountain 
cataracts and the intermittent thunder of avalanches, I 
cannot say, but it is a deplorable fact that the native Swiss 
are decidedly deaf, and as most roads run alongside of some 
noisy stream, you should provide yourself with the shrillest 
whistle you can get if you wish to maintain a clear course. 

Some kind of toothed bar for holding the brake fixed is 
absolutely essential for Swiss riding ; the hills are too long 
for any arms to maintain the strain of applying the brake 
without some such mechanical assistance. 

Maps, Distance, Measurements, Ac, — For guide book 
there is nothing like Baedeker (to be had in English as well 
as in other languages), and the Swiss Ordnance maps are, 



like their roads, models of surveying skill. Maps of a size 
approximately corresponding to our inch scale may be had 
of any part of Switzerland ; certain sections, too, may be 
had on a larger scale, containing contour lines indicating 
the rise and fall of the country. These last will be found 
particularly useful, as they enable the bicyclist to ascertain 
exactly the gradients at any portion of his route, and so to 
be prepared for the hills ; but on the ordinary scale maps 
the heights of most of the villages, etc., are given (or, if not, 
they will be found in Baedeker), so that the essential 
features of the route cau be inferred beforehand. Each 
contour line on the large scale map indicates a height 
difiereDce of 30 metres (roughly 100ft.). The most usual 
gradient will be found to be two contour lines, or 200ft., to 
a mile — i.e., a resultant or average gradient of about 
1 in 25, which is perfectly rideable up or down. Swiss roads 
are well provided with legible signposts ; but if the rider is 
in any doubt as to where he is, let him, on passing through 
the next village, look out for the red board invariably fixed 
above the shop or inn serving as post office. On this board, 
with its white cross, he will see the words " Post Ablage," 
followed by the name of the village. This is better than 
dismounting to ask, as the patois pronunciation of local 
names would deceive even the best German scholar. The 
Swiss unit of measurement, both for heights and distances, 
is a metre, which is equivalent to thirty-nine English inches. 
To translate a height in metres into English feet, multiply 
by 3^. Thus the lake of Thun, being marked as 560 metres, 
above the sea, by multiplying by three, and adding a fourth, 
we get 1820ft. The distance measurements are not quite 
so easy of computation, but an average mental arithmetician 
can easily do the sum as he rides along. In most districts 
the distance unit is a kilometre — i.e., a thousand metres. 
A metre being 39 inches is equivalent to a yard plus a 
twelfth ; 1000 metres, therefore, is 1000 yards plus the 
twelfth of a thousand, i.e,, 1084 yards (roughly), which is 
again (roughly) 200 yards more than an English half mile. 
Hence we get the following formula for converting kilometres 
into miles — ^Divide the total number of kilometres by two, 
and add to the result 200 yards for every kilometre. Twenty 
kilometres, then, will be ten miles plus (20 times 200) 4000 
yards, or (roughly) 12 J miles. Another rough and ready way 
of calculating is to take |ths of the number of kilometres. 
The roadstones are generally placed at intervals of every five 
kilometres, but the signboards will give the eicact distance 
from place to place, even to the tenth of a kilometre. In 
the canton Bern distances are indicated by " stunden " or 
" hours," a " stunde " being presumably the average distance 
covered by the Bernese wayfarer in an hour's walking. It is 
very nearly equivalent to five kilometres, being 4800 metres 
exactly, or just eighty yards short of three Euglish miles. 
In some places you will find both methods of computa- 
tion in vogue, and both kilometres and stunden posted up. 
With regard to maps. The best general map of Switzer- 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



land is Leuthold's ; but for more detailed use the Swiss 
Ordnance maps should be procured. A. — The ordinary scale 
map, about iths of an inch to the mile, is to be had in 
twenty-four separate sheets, and I think the price at 
Stanford's is 2s. 9d. a sheet. Several of the sections how- 
ever will be of little or no use to the bicyclist. B.—Next 
to this comes a scale twice as large again, called the 
Original Survey. This scale is only to be had at present 
for certain districts, and not for the whole of Switzerland ; 
but new numbers are being issued every year. Each sheet 
contains an area equal to i^th of that contained in a whole 
sheet of scale A ; the sheets are therefore much smaller. 
I forget the English price, but they are to be had for 
one franc abroad. These contain the contour lines. Again, 
there are certain favoured districts for which you can 
obtain sheets (C) on a scale four times that of A, i.e., about 
2^ inches to the mile. As both these scales, B and G, form 
part of the same numerical series, it is always necessary to 
look at the scale index if you wish to ascertain to which 
class the map belongs. 

The maps can be mounted most conveniently by cutting 
off all margins, and dividing sheets A into two sheets by 
a line drawn from top to bottom, i,e., from N. to S. Then 
divide each half-sheet thus obtained into three equal portions 
by lines from N. to S., and four equal portions by lines 
from W. to E. The half-sheet, thus mounted, folds up 
into a size which can be easily placed in a breast pocket. 
A little American leather case in which to enclose the maps 
is convenient ; it secures them from wet, etc. Sheets B 
and G need no halving, but can be mounted as they are by 
removing the margins and dividing them by one line from 
W. to E. and by two from N. to S. The resultant square 
will be slightly larger than that of A, so that if both sizes 
are in use, the leather case should be fitted to the size 
of B and G. 

Few forms of anticipating the pleasures of an outing are 
so rewarding as going carefully over the route intended 
on a good map, noting the villages, streams, mountains, 
lakes, and other features of it as far as it is possible for 
a map to give them. It is wonderful how readily the 
imagination conjures up a thoroughly real and lively 
presentation of the whole scene. Of course it is not quite 
80 enjoyable as the reverse process of reviving your associa- 
tions of a journey actually made by reference to the map 
months or years after ; still it is a real enjoyment — at least 
I have always found it so— and I venture to think Lhat 
if anyone intending to visit Switzerland will provide 
himself with the requisite maps at home ami travel over 
the ground beforehand, with their aid, and the help of these 
notes wjiich you have been so kind as .to publish, he will 
^ot find it so dry a business as he may be inclined to 
Imagine. For this purpose I appeiid a list of the maps 
Required for each of the routes 1 have here described, 
rhe Roman numerals are the number of the sheet of size A, 



each sheet being (where required) referred to in its divided 
state, the letters W and E representing the Western and 
Eastern ; ie., the left or right half of the sheet respectively. 
Where only the number is given, it is to be inferred that 
both halves of the sheet will be required. I have also 
added in Arabic numerals the numbers of the smaller sheets 
of size B or G wherever they exist — 

§ 1. MapBU.,E.;Su.,W.ofScaleA. No8.8aiid28of SciaeBorC. 
§ 2. ii., E. ; vii., B. 7, 8, 9, 10, 96. 

§ 8. ii., B. ; iii, W. ; viL, B. ; viiL, W. ; xiL, B. 8, 28, 80, 148, 

145, 821, 828, 887, 889, 858. 
§ 4. xii, B. 819,322, 886, 838, 389,852, 858. 
§ 5. xii., E. ; xiii., W. 352, 358, 854, 355, 867, 891. 
§ 6. xiL, E, ; xiii., W. S53, 855, 895. 
§ 7. xiii., W.; xviii., W. 395, 896,488. 

§ 8. viu.,xu.,B.,xiii. 337,839.358,355,889,891,892,898,895. 
§ 9. xii., E. ; xvii., B. 853, 355, 867, 463. 488. 
S 10. xii., E, ; xvii., E. 353, 355, 866, 867, 462, 472. 
§ 11. xii, xvu. 818, 819, 331, 882, 836, 888, 858, 854, 866, 866, 
867, 462. 

§ 12. yiil, B. ; xiii, E. B and not yet publiBhed. 

§18. viii,E. 

S 14. viii, B. ; ix., W. 

§ 15. viii., B. ; xiU., E. 890. 

§16. viU.,xiii 

§17. viii.,E. 160,161. 

1 18. viii., E. ; ix., W. 161. 

§ 19. viii., E. J ix., W. 

§ 20. viu., B. ; ix., xiv. 246, 268, 400, 401, 404. 
f 21. iii., E. ; viii., B. 16, 54, 65, 67, 159. 161. 
§ 22. iii., E. ; iv., W. ; viii. B. 16, 54, 56, 67, 58, 66, 66, 67 
159, 161. 

§ 28. u.. E. ; iii, viii, E. 8, 18, 28, 29, 82, 38, 89, 158, 160, 161. 

In conclusion, I have to thank you, Mr. Editor, for your 
kindness in inserting this itinerary. I fear I have trespassed 
unduly on your spi^, and on your readers' patience. 
Descriptions of this kind meant to serve a purely practical 
purpose must be somewhat dry reading. They will however 
have served their end, and I shall feel amply rewarded for 
any pains I have taken with them, if they be the means of 
inducing other riders to visit the districts mentioned, and 
of saving them when there the trouble of hunting out the 
details of their route beforehand. Should anyone following 
my tracks discover any inaccuracies in those details as here 
given, I shall be very much obliged to them if they will 
kindly point them out^ It will be found that the distances 
stated are sometimes at variance with those given in 
Baedeker ; but his distances are very often those of the 
railway, and not of the coach road. 

August, 1882. Gbrabd F. Gobb. 

[Note.— The date of the Ehn landslip (p. 109) should 
hcVxi beelii September, 1881, instead of September, 1882.] 

ON THE TRAGK. 
Having been persuaded it was my duty to enter for the 
Glub Mile, in a weak moment I did so — Get my machine 
(a heavy roadster) up to London Bridge, and leave it at 
the booking office— they paste a label on the only bright 
part — 6o down to the Palace by 2.30— find a racing man 
has come by the same train — In a most masterly fashion 
he turns his racer upside down, and wheels it up the stairs, 
hind wheel in the air— Seems so easy, I try it myself. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



135 



but with very disastrous results; the first being that I 
drop my bag wliich contains some tea in a glass bottle 
wrapped up in my clothes — Next, I hit a man in the 
back with the small wheel which sways about from one 
side to the other — reach the first landing — ^get desperate, 
and try to carry the machine up forcibly by the hub, 
only howeyer managing to pinch my hands, spoil my 
gloves, and make a large, black, oily streak on a white 
waistcoat I had intended to have a very telling effect 
on a certain person to whom I had given tickets — ^began to 
wish I had not done so, particularly as I had given them 
(in conformity with precedent) to the little brother, who 
will, no doubt, make rude remarks about my appearance 
— ^As I find my efforts at canning the bi rather exhausting, 
I engage a porter who calmly wheels it up in the ordinary 
manner^consider that racing man has done me an injury 
— At last I arrive at the track, which does not exhilarate 
me ; for of all the dreary places I think this beats the lot — 
looks like the ruins of something or other — ^they might fill 
the basins up a little so as not to show quite so much iron 
piping — that bridge, too, just by the dressing room 
looks awfully dangerous — ^think it would be safer to have 
a wall about a foot high, so that should a man go over 
the edge he would shoot out some distance, and so 
fall in the water, which might be kept deeper — at present 
he would fall on the jagged stones lining the basin — 
Begin to wish I had never entered but must go on now— 
especially as I have asked her to see me — Go out to see if 
they have arrived — don't find them — ^most likely at concert 
inside the Palace — hope they will stop there until my heat 
is over — Back to dressing room — Policeman wants to see 
my competitors' ticket, which I have lost, and only get in 
by one of the officials swearing to my identity — Our ribbon 
seems to have a remarkable effect on the force — Think I 
will look at some of the machines, but having no colours on 
am not allowed through — Notice, however, that our officers 
are turning traitors^Get one to lend me half his ribbon, 
and swagger up to the custodian of the wicket^ who gives 
way before the tricolor — ^Racing commences — Waddy 
breaks a spoke and pulls up in the first fifty yards 
of the Ladies' Challenge — wish mine would do the same 
— ^make up my mind I wont start, and secretly extract 
the bolt from my crank— have reckoned, however, with- 
out my host, for a particular friend (whom I shall never 
forgive) with mistaken generosity insists on my using 
his racer. Having a long start, have to mount in front of 
all the people. Hope she has not arrived yet — order to 
mount given — startling discovery, bicycle has no step ! — 
try to get on by various means, and at last, by the help of 
a little main force from a muscular member, manage to get 
seated — ^find she is just the other side of the fence looking 
on all the time — little brother jeering — ^get very confused 
and hot — don't hear the pistol, but energetic starter does, 
and sends me off with a jerk that nearly capsizes me — go 



off as hard as I can — ^have not gone far before scratch man 
of the heat catches me up, but does not pass me — ^begin to 
think I must be better tha;n I thought I was until the bell 
rings, when he dashes away and beats me by almost half a 
lap — can hardly feel my legs, and nearly tumble down 
when I get off*— Now my part of the performance is done 
have a look at the racing — wonder what Oswald will be 
later on if he can go like that now on a roadster — Harold 
Smith rides the machine he had in the Bath — should not 
like to trust myself on it from Bath to Devizes. Jephson 
and Wyndham great favourites with the spectators — ^a 
duck nearly upsets former — Francis and Beck in the same 
heat — Former evidently decides he won't beat his best 
friend. In the sixth heat of the Two Miles the spectators 
seem to have turned into a lot of rooks — can hear nothing 
but Cawr ! Cawr ! ! — ^but find they are only urging Carr on 
as he gamely sticks to Perry— during the Ten Miles District 
I take a stroll round— can't find anyone I know for some 
time — at last find object of search — ^no seats to be 
procured nor tea in the refreshment tent — little brother 
wants to know why I didn't win — ^tell him strange 
machine, but he won't believe it— can't shake him off 
until I send him to have a ride on one of the bone- 
shakers the Palace company lets out on hire — have to point 
out all the more celebrated L.B.C. men to her — thinks they 
are all very nice — ten miles still going on— don't I think 
Waddy (everybody calls him Waddy) looks nice? — Of 
course I do, but I don't want to keep on saying so all day 
— friend of a brother comes back — torn his trousers and 
cut his knee — says it is all my fault — says his sister must 
take him home — wish be had killed himself — a long wait 
in the racing, as we have got before time and some men 
are coming on from Beckenham and Catford Bridge. All 
the scratch men ride very close to the inside edge of the 
track, going over the line sometimes — ^remember I had 
some difficulty in keeping inside the outer line — shower 
comes down, and the prizes which the Captain had taken 
so much trouble to arrange are shot all of a heap into the 
judge's box— Captain, however, rises superior to all diffi- 
culties, and all get their proper prizes — new racing medal 
much appreciated by winners — wear my new Bath medal at 
once. N. H., Jun. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Bole 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permiflrion from the Captain. The following list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wiiJiing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

June 23. — L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 

23.— Clapham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
28. — ^Rovers B.C. at Crystal Palace. Evening Race 
Meeting. 

30. — Speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Birminffhiun. 
30. — A.A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
30.— Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTK 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine eaeteth off his qtdlls 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioscorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to beliere it.*'--Sir T. Biotoe. 

" I always heard the CP. track was a fast one/' remarked 
a waff as Adam and Whatton were takinir 78 sees, over the 
first lap in their heat at the Oxford match. 

• ••«•• 

The feelings of the two members of the Race Committee, 
who timed Oswald from his mark on Thursday nighty may 
be more easily imagined than described. 

• •«••• 

I hear that the verdict of our lady visitors is that a grand 
stand and a cup of tea are necessary to make the Race 
Meeting perfection. 

• ♦ • 

We fortunately got through the afternoon without a 
single tumble, and no one protested in the Final of the 
Two Miles Handicap, though Feirv might very fairly have 
done so. I hope the Committee will be warned against next 
year. 

«••••• 

C. A. E. Pollock invested the Telegraph Board "with 
whatever artistic merit it possessed." 

• ••••• 

Everyone missed the " N.E. crock " and its indefatigable 
rider, who has won his heats in^the Club Mile since 1860 

or thereabouts. 

• ••••• 

Seriouslv, George Oxz of the Surrey has the proud dis- 
tinction 01 having ridden at every Annual Race Meeting 
given by the L.B.C., last Saturday being his ninth. 

• ••••• 

The editor's modesty is being much tried, I hear ; a small 
boy on Saturday rushed at him and insisted that he was 
Mr. Falconer." I hope our President feels flattered. 

• ••«•• 

" Don't you think the Gazette is getting very personal ? 

I thought that article on went too far," said a virtuous 

member the other day. He little knew he was addressing 
the writer of the article in question. 

There were loud cries in the crowd for Fred Williams' 
speech on Saturday, after Mrs. Williams had given away 
the prizes, but his natural bashfulness only led to his 
assaulting two or three members smaller than himself, and 
retiring blushing. 

I am sure all our m^bers regret Buckley's unfortunate 
accident, and the credit of the victories over the Univer- 
sities is marred by the &ct that in each case their best man 

was not riding. 

• • ♦ • • • 

If the 0.n.Bi.C. had ridden their printed team, they 
would have won the Mile by 2 to 1, and we the Four Miles 
by one point, and the Fifteen Miles by at least 3 points, 
thus winning the match by two events to one. 

The Treasurer was observed chuckling on Thursday, as 
the Club has onlv to nve 2 medals, instead of 10 as last 
If only tnere had been a Head wind in the Bath 



Race the finances might look cheerful. 

I hear that the Editor has a practical article on 
Continental Touring, from an expert, in the tub, which 
intending foreign travellers will do well to look out for. 



The Latest of the N.KD.G. 

Hotel Tegetthoff, Vienna, 

15th Jane. 

" Sorry to have been detamed here so long, but hope to 
get off soon." 

Last Saturdav was jjuite a field day for the Club Mashers. 
White hats, white ties, and white waiscoats were quite 

de figueur. 

• ♦ « ♦ • • 

The West D.C. has become so elated with the success of 
his District, that he had the temerity to hint that upon its 
present form the N.W. should be divided between the 

W. and N.E. 

• * • « • « 

Is this not enough to bring out again the ancient mem- 
bers who used to beertride the trusty " Stassens " in days of 
yore and smile at a club run to Amersham and back ? 

It has been suggested that the Stamford Bridge track 

being still on our hands for Saturday week, the two 

Districts not r^resented in the District Challenge Race 

should have an afternoon's competition, as many members 

of each of the two Districts taking part in it as may choose 

to do so. The N.W., I believe, funk the N.E., or might 

challenge them as w 41 as the S. W. 

*••«•* 

Two of our membm, luid five members' brothers, pkyed 
for the South of England Lacrosse team in the match 

against the Indians at Wanstead. 

• ••••• 

"Big John," the Indian chief and field-captain, was 
evidentiv put out by something ; attired in a Moses suit 
and a felt hat, he strenuously refused to put on his native 
dress, and kept on repeating " I'm de boss here." However, 
halfway through the game he came round, and amidst 
enthusia^ic yeus from his team was seen bounding out of the 

pavilion, complete with an enormous head-dress of feathers. 

• ••••• 

Sibold had his work cut out to set his men's attention 
to " Preciosa" towards the finish of the Fifteen Miles Race 

at the Oxford match. 

• ' • • « • • 

One of the best things at the Race Meeting on Saturdav 
was J. C. Oswald's K aming face, as he watched his brother s 



victorious progress round the track. 



PORCUPINB. 



TOURING. 

Could any member of the L.B.C., who has had personal 
experience, tell the undersigned the best rout<e to the 
Lakes. R. Cooper Willis. 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
C. Y. Lyne, 70, Albion R<5ad, Stoke Nowington, N. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
For Sale.— 58-in. "Humber Racer," built this spring; 
57-in. "Rucker Roadster," built last summer. Address, 
Gilbert F. Beck, Lloyd's, E.C. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All oontribntioiis must be addressed to '* The Editor, L.B.O. Gaiette, 
85, Eastcheap; KC," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
neoeasarily for insertion. They must be vritten on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dablikg & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, B.C.— June 21, 1888. 



Digitized by 



Googl( 





An Official Kecord of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 17.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



June 28, 1883. 



The TreaBurer 

Notice. — ^Lawn Tennis 

Saturday Rnns 

Club Meets 

Continent«l Touring ... 



CONTENTS. 

PAGB 
187 



138 
188 
140 
141 



Correapondence 

All Round the Wheel 

Qtulla 

Racing FixtureB 

Notice to CorreBpondents 



FAOB 

142 
143 
144 
, 144 
. 144 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 

THE TREASURER. 
It is with feelings of profound respect that we approach 
the subject of the Club finances and the Club financier. 
This is not, as some narrow-minded persons might suppose, 
because we have not paid our subscription : we should 
indeed be sorry to add another straw to the burden of our 
arrears which, to judge fi-om the notices appearing from 
time to time in our columns, our Treasurer may be supposed 
to have to bear continually on his shoulders. We can 
imagine it an easy task enough when the subscriptions flow 
in almost spontaneously, and each year's labours are crowned 
with a substantial balance ; but — ^and we must confess we 
ask the question with considerable diffidence — ^has this ever 
been the e3q[)erience of our Treasurer? Is not the work of 
collecting the golden guineas of the L.B.C. known to be 
about as arduous a task as was that of gathering the golden 
apples of the Hesperides ? and may not our Treasurer be 
said to live like the Sjrracusan despot, with a drawn sword 
suspended over his neck, in the shape of a prospective 
balance on the wrong side at the end of the year ? The 
figures in which they are conveyed may appear hyperbolical, 
but the questions themselves would, we think, be answered 
in the affirmative by anyone who can speak from experience. 
It is said that the countenance of the Treasurer is sufficient 
to show the hard work the office entails, while at the same 



time it may be regarded as a thermometer, indicating the 
height or the reverse of the Club's pecuniary resources. 
With what a smile— faint as it is rare — does he present the 
balance sheet which shows a small surplus ; but, on the 
other hand, with a deficit staring him in the face, the 
shadow of a smile no longer adorns, and it is with sternly 
set features that he advocates a policy of economy, or replies 
with a non possumus to some Quixotic scheme of Club liber- 
ality. Occasionally you see him with a well-fed sort of an 
air about him from which you gather that his arrears have 
just been lessened by the receipt of the subscription of some 
tardy member. At another time he wears a lean and 
hungry look, and you suspect that he has just returned 
empty handed from a foraging expedition up some three or 
four flights of dark and precipitous stairs. Few and far 
between are, alas, the smiles of the Treasurer I Truly when 
the north-east wind has raised the value of medals on Whit- 
Monday, or our racing men have held their own against the 
Universities, he may have been known by his most intimate 
friend to have indulged in a quiet chuckle, but seldom, if 
ever, on public occasions will his features relax from their 
sphinx-like look of seated melancholy. More seriously 
we doubt if any of the Club officers have a more irksome 
duty to perform than the Treasurer. It is true the Captain 
has a greater responsibility ; and the Editor has no easy 
task sometimes in grasping the meaning of his correspon- 
dents when they blossom forth into abstruse jokes, or deck 
theu: effusions with fragments of foreign tongues. Here 
there is scope for genius ; but in the place of IVeasurer, a 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



good man of business is worth more than half a dozen men 
of genius. Let us congratulate ourselves, and the Club, 
on always finding men able and willing to undertake the 
responsibilities of a not over flourishing exchequer ; and 
let us acknowledge the services of our Treasurer by paying 
our subscriptions punctually — a small enough thing in 
itself, though no slight boon in the eyes of the hard-worked 
official whose duties we have here taken the liberty to 
consider. 

LAWN TENNIS. 
Result— First Round. 

Hewitt bpat Wyndham (scratched). 

Naylor „ Gruggen. 

Elgood „ Hindley (scratched). 

Scrutton, T. E... „ Lloyd. 

Reynolds „ Potter, L. 

Herbert Arthur „ Potter, A. L. 

Beck „ Scrutton, J. H. (scratched). 

Potter, J. F. ... „ Francis, R. H. M. (scratched). 
Francis, R. G. ... „ Barker. 

Sharp „ Herbert, Alfred. 

Paull „ a bya 

Powell and Rucker had not played by the 23rd instant, 
and consequently are scratched. 

Second Round. 

Hewitt plays Naylor. 

Scrutton, T. E. ... „ Reynolds. 
Herbert, Arthur ... „ Beck. 

Potter, J. F „ Francis, R. G. 

PauU Sharp. 

Elgood „ a bye. 

Results must be sent in by Monday, 16th July. 

H. N. Shabp. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 

N.E. DiSTBICT. 

June 23rd. — The little district has been so admirably 
organised by that energetic gentleman, whose address, ac- 
cording to latest post card advice, is still Hotel Tegetthoff 
(by-the-by he dovit seem to-get-ofi), that in his absence 
the runs are carried out with clock-work regularity. Jolly 
and Lyne met at the top of the Lea Bridge Road precisely 
at 3.30 (a case unprecedented in the memory of your re- 
porter), and proceeded through clouds of bunting and 
throngs of loyal spectators anxiously awaiting the return of 
H.R.H. from Buckhurst Hill, to Sybom's Corner, where 
6. Smith and Sharman were found, and were presently 
joined by K D. SeweR The five reached the Flats by the 
usual route, and were then beguiled into a so-called short 
cut worthy of the N.G. himself, consisting as it did of a 
villanous piece of road over the most exposed part of the 



Flats against a stiffish breeze, and a voyage of discovery 
through the latest failures in road making by Forest Gate 
builders, winding up with a barrier and a dismount. The 
right road was found at last, when Sewell turned back 
to make a call, and was seen no more. The monotony 
of the flat country was pleasantly varied by a difference 
of opinion between two natives of East Ham, one of 
whom was old enough and fat enough to have known 
better ; his arguments were however so convincing that his 
opponent was morally and physically floored by them. At 
the Albert Dock a long wait was occasioned by reason of the 
swing bridge being closed, or, as an official in a mildly 
corrective tone observed, open for the passage of a large 
steamer, and it was fully expected that we should find the 
visitors also detained and waiting on the opposite side. 
This did not prove to be the case, and a long wait was made 
at the pier, during which, liquid and nicotian refreshments 
were indulged in, and then the band (of North Woolwich 
Gardens) played. It was not until 5.45 that eight South- 
Easters and two visitors landed ; an immediate start was 
made, the Home District with true courtesy giving the 
place of honour to their guests, modestly bringing up 
the rear through Barking and Ilford, and striving to 
impress the natives thereof rather by an exhibition of fine 
form than speed \ so well did they carry out their princi- 
ples that the visitors were soon lost sight of, and 
arrived at Ghigwell in advance. More members were 
found at the King's Head," and an excited group 
surrounding the new Rucker Tandem bicycle, a description 
of which it is hoped may appear in these columns. A most 
unfortunate breakdown in the Commissariat department 
occurred, for which apologies are due to the S.E. ; no one's 
fault, of course ; D.C. absent. Substitute on a tour ; 
IVeasurer had left it to Substitute ; reporter " didn't know 
nothing about nobody ; " however, just as thoughts of going 
home to tea were being indulged in, the meal was announced 
and partaken of, such as it was,insomewhat disjointedfashion 
in detached arbours, the inner garden being reserved for 
our exclusive use. An early start home was made, some 
energetic members stating their intention of accompanying 
the S.E. as far as Ilford ; the rear guard having no par- 
ticular yearning to visit that spot twice in the same day, 
jogged home in a manner more befitting their years and 
dignity through Snaresbrook and Walthamstow, over the 
marshes,, and parted at Spring Hill as ten was striking. 
Present at Ghigwell : E H. Barrett, A. Barrett (visitor), 
Forster, R. B. Hough, Jackson (N. W.), Jolly, Kelsey, Lyne, 
C. Newman (N.W.), Rucker, Sharman, G. Smith, and 
Weeks. Present at start : R D. Sewell. Spoken : S. G. 
Hough. 

N.W. District. 
June 23rd. — Our run to Stanmore with the W. was 
certainly a success, although the district was not re- 



Digitized by 









LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE- 139 




presented by anything like its proper strength. Only 
Metcalfe joined me at Hendon Station, and no Hampstead 
contingent arriving we left at 4.45, riding to the " Green 
Man," Kingsbury, where we found Barnett awaiting our 
arriyal with two' W. men. Where the West D. C. was, and 
why he did not turn up was beyond the powers of the com- 
bined districts to divine. Could he have had the audacity 
after that letter of his, detracting from the charms of the 
Silent Pool, to have gone there after all ? If so, it is well 
for him he does not get rule over that portion of the N.W. 
which he covets ! Our grand muster of five made for 
St>anmore, via Kenton Lane and Harrow. Weald Common, 
from which there is a magnificent view, extending for miles 
over Rickmansworth way. At the "Abercorn Arms," 
where we were joined by Langmore, Elgood, and 6. Hill, 
they were unable, or somebody suggested unwilling, to give 
us tea, so we moved on to the " Crown," at which house 
we were accomodated in good style. During the meal 
Stunt and Alison turned up, the latter calling in on his way 
from Digswell Hill to Datchet. We left about eight, and 
made our way back by Kenton Lane and the Hide, having 
had a most enjoyable run, with roads in good order after 
the rain. Present : Alison, Barnett, Elgood, Hill, Metcalfe, 
Stunt, and 

W. J. Williams, for District Captain. 


waiting, the latter of whom acted as pioneer as far as the 
ferry at Woolwich. On the way they were joined by 
Blackheath Division, five strong, and at the landing stage 
by Beck and the D.C., and the whole party crossed over by 
steamer without mishap. A detachment of the N.E., who 
had ridden out to welcome us, were drawn up on the 
opposite shore, and with a strong breeze behind, and a sur- 
face which seemed excellent after Lewisham and Woolwich 
macadam, a good pace was kept up to Chigwell. Here we 
were expected by the main body of the North-East, but 
not by the landlord of the " King's Head." The difficulty 
of want of room was, however, soon got over by an im- 
promptu tea in some of the arbours in the garden. After a 
post-prandial pipe and a pleasant half hour spent in the 
company of the North-East, a move homewards was made 
about half-past eight. Several of the N.E. kindly accom- 
panied us back as far as Barking. Though somewhat 
delayed by the ferry and the crowded streets of Woolwich, 
the various parties reached home before the small hours. 
Some httle credit is due to those S.E. men who supported 
their District at Chigwell on Saturday, instead of choosing 
more pleasant ways of their own. Present : 6. F. Beck, 
Day, Halliday, S. Herbert, Marten, W. C. Oswald, Parker, 
S. P. Smith, S. E. Whealler, two visitors, and 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 




Next Saturday the run is one of the best of the season — 
Little Berkhempstead — and I shall fully hope to meet a 
large number of men at Tally ho ! Corner at 4.30. There 
are a great many in the district whom we have not had the 
pleasure of seeing this season, and I shall be very pleased 
if they will for once favour us with their company. I can 
promise, if the weather is fine, a splendid ride over good 
roads and through beautiful country, and probably ** maca- 
dam pie " for tea. What more do men want ? 
» 

W. District. 

June 23rd. There is nothing to be added to the account 
of Saturday's run which will be furnished by the North 
West D. C. (pro tern.) except to express surprise that for 
such a short run on a fine afternoon the attendance 'of West 
men should have been so small. The late rains had greatly 
improved the roads — even Clamp Hill, usually a mass of 
shingle, was in fair condition and rideable. There was a 
nice breeze, the scent of new mown hay everywhere, and no 
rain, though the clouds looked rather threatening as we 
were returning. Present : H. M. Hewitt, J. W. Langmore, 
and A. B. Whatton. 

S.E. District. 
Three men left Croydon last Saturday for Chigwell. At 
Lewisham Church Parker and S. P. Smith were found 


Next Saturday we run to Mickleham to meet the W. and 
S.W. The Croydon Division will wait for the Blackheath 
men at St. Katharine Street until 430, and leave punctually 
at that hour. A short halt will be made at the Glyn Arms," 
Ewell, at 5.15. A great many men who found Chigwell too 
far have promised to come, so there is every chance of a 
good meet. We shall have tea at the " Beehive " at 6.30. 

B. 0. Feancis. 

S.W. District. 
The opinion that the West D.C. candidly expressed last 
week concerning the tranquil and ever-interesting Silent 
Pool which he described as so unattractive as to be un- 
worthy of a visit, is not, we trust, the result of personal 
experience ; for it would indeed be difficult to understand 
how so romantic a spot could have thus signally failed to 
exert any influence upon him. Assuming then that he 
speaks from hearsay, we emphatically urge him to visit this 
pleasing resort and then to report Uiereon. Anyway, the 
. best thanks of the District are due to the West D.C. for 
the thoughtfulness he has displayed in re-announcing our 
run, and thus again reminding members of our destination, 
which, but for this voluntary consideration would have 
been altogether omitted ! Our meet at Kingston, in so far 
as other districts were concerned, was decidedly satisfactory, 
for nearly all were represented ; but upon the doings of our 
own men on that particular day we must needs draw a 




Digitized by V^OOQ IC 



140 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



veil Precisely at 4-15 our energetic Captain Barrett was 
,at the meeting place, followed shortly after by W. J. F. 
Potts, an old rider in our District, who, it will be remem- 
bered suddenly left us last year to join the S.E.D. At 
about 4-30 p.m. Price and Hawley rode up, they having 
come in "hot haste" from Hampstead. After a short 
delay, for the benefit of our late visitors, the run was 
commenced, and the usual route followed by Surbiton to 
Esher, where we had a short pause and found several mem- 
bers of the Wanderers B.C. preparing for a Road Trial 
Handicap, from thence to Guildford and back to Esher. 
Triflingly refreshed we were soon again pursuing our course 
over hill and dale to Cobham, and at this last named place 
no persuasive efforts on our part could deter Potts from 
quitting us ; we regretted his absence the more when we 
remembered the slight sketch he had given before start- 
ing of what his little 48-inch, machine was capable of 
accomplishing in the matter of hills and of the oppor- 
tunity that Newlands Corner would have afforded for 
practically putting both rider and wheels to the test! 
Passing over the picturesque bridge across the Wey, and 
beneath the miniature Clifton Suspension Bridge, we were 
soon (under the speedy conduct of our northern guides) at 
the Wisley Hut and its pleasing surroundings, and the 
scene of our " great picnic " of last year. At Ripley we 
stayed again, and there learning l^at the road-racing talent 
of the Wanderers B.C. was shoYtly expected to pass through, 
we awaited their coming with interest. In about five 
minutes one member (Litchfield) passed in fair form, and 
then as time went on, and no other riders made their ap- 
pearance, we were obliged to continue our run. Turning 
to the left, about a mile from Ripley, and passing through 
the quaint little village of West Clandon, we drew near to 
Newland's Comer, but before reaching this ground there is 
a very decided obstacle or formidable hill in loose and 
stoney condition to be surmounted, and up this (to their 
credit be it spoken) both Barrett and Hawley rode in 
excellent form ! Upon gaining the top and Corner, a 
splendid view is obtained of the surrounding country in 



almost every direction, but the weather was too dull to 
admit of our seeing either Windsor Castle or St. Paul's, 
which are both visible from this point. The track of the 
ancient pilgrims, on their way from Southampton to Canter- 
bury, over St. Martha's Hill, which is marked by fine old 
yew trees, could however be clearly discerned; here, 
indeed, would have been a grand place to bold a picnic ! 
The descent to the Pool is fairly rideable, but as we came 
to the steepest pitch we saw Whatton coming up, and so 
saved further risk by dismounting. We were sorry to learn 
from this representative of the West District that he had 
already had tea at Gomshall, seen the Pool, and was on his 
way to town. About 7.30 p.m. we had reached the dear^ 
refreshing-looking, and peaceful waters known as the 
Silent Pool, in which it was refreshing to watch the 
meanderings of several different specimens of the " finny 
tribe." The summer-house overlooking the upper pool was 
already occiH)ied by a festive and extensive picnic party, so 
that the customary smoke could not be indulged in there. 
Upon quitting the pools we soon reached the " Drummond 
Arms " at Albury, where we had to make the best of both 
short and indifferent rations, where even milk was at a 
premium, and no persuasiveness on our part could induce 
the good people to take an3rthing off the top shelf in the 
larder for us that might possibly be in reserve there for 
Sunday. Outside Albury, Price and Hawley left us, they 
to ride to Aldershot, and we to return to Kingston. Thus 
concluded a very pleasant annual excursion, which would of 
course have been still further incrersed had our S.W. 
members been able to give us their hoped for cordial 
support. Distance from Kingston 36 miles. It was cur- 
rently reported that the S.E. were to be at the Silent Pool, 
but they never came. Members present : Ashley Barrett, 
E. S. Price, J. S. Whatton, A. Hawley, W. J. P. Potts, 
visitor, and R. M. OBUoaBK, District Captain. 



The run next Saturday is to Mickleham to meet the 
West and S.E., when we must all endeavour to take part 
in the run. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


B.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blaokheath Division. 


June 80. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 3.80, 
and Syborn'fl Corner 
8.45, for Stivfobd. 


3.45, Jack Straw'i 
Castle" for Little 

BSBKHEMFSTKAD. 


8.45, Sayemake Cot- 
tage, MiUHiURd., 
Acton, for Miokle- 
HAM. ("Beehive.") 
Meet S.W. and 
S.E. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for MiOKLX- 
EAX. Meet W. and 
S.E. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
MioKLEHAX. Meet 
W. and S.W. 


8.80, Old Lewiaham 
Chnrdi, for MiOK- 
LBBAK. Meet W. 
and S.W. 


July 7. 


Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
3.45, for Onoab. 


3.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Shin- 

UEY. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MiU Hm Bead, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

OOKHAM. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for BiPLET. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

BLETOHINaLET. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 8.30, for 
BLnoHiiraLET. 



Googl( 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



141 



CONTINENTAL TOURING. 

The serenity of mind, the placid enjoyment of life and 
its pleasures^ the sweet and quiet content of a blameless 
conscience, which have hitherto been distinguishing features 
of my existence, have all been tbreittened with speedy and 
remorseless extinction since I was requested (wbich is a 
gentle and inoffensive euphemism fpr a far more imperious 
word) by the Editor to write an article for this Gazette. 
The instructions (hints would be softer^ but the truth must 
out) received were explicit and precise ; they were given 
with all that perspicuity and directum which adds such 
force to anything the Editor has to say. In obedience to 
their tenor I have therefore essayed tp carry out the obli- 
gation of an Occasional Contributor (or O.C. to vary the 
venerated initials D.C. which are sometimes seen in the 
Gazette) by contributing an article. 

My theme has been selected. It is C!ontinental Touring, 
to be treated in a practical and rational manner. Those 
are conditions easily made, and very sweet, no doubt, to 
the mind of him who made them. Whether it is possible 
for me to fulfil them or not I cannot say. 

Continental touring by bicycle is almost free from one 
great evil attendant upon home " touring " so-called, and 
that is riding a certain number of miles within a given 
time, more for the sake of scoring distance than for the 
pleasure to be derived from the journey. A man who goes 
abroad is, in a great measure, the child of chance. He has, ' 
it is true, made his plans as far as his information of his 
intended route will permit, but he knows perfectly well 
that they are liable to be changed by many circumstances 
he cannot foresee. With a simple and child-like faith that 
all will turn out well he sets upon his journey, and often 
returns having completed a tour varying largely from that 
he traced out before starting. The uncertainty whether 
fixed plans can be carried out, the consciousness that you 
cannot fix your road beforehand in "cut-and-dried" sec- 
tions and follow it without deviation, lend a certain charm 
to foreign travel which is absent from home touring. The 
moral of all this is. Don't make fixed plans. Sketch out 
the general idea of a route and leave the rest to that 
Providence which shapes your ways plan them how you 

wm. 

An inseparable adjunct to continental touring by bicycle 
is a bicycle. I say this advisedly, because there are some 
riders who will start away with that which they, dignify by 
calling a bicycle, that, however, which the calmer judgment 
of those who are unbiassed and candid decides to be a Thing. 
A Thing is a dangerous and unsatisfactory companion at all 
times, in spite of the fond ecstasies of its possessor. A good 
bicycle, tight and sound, and well found in all its various 
parts, is most essential. It should be a strong, well-made, 
reliable roadster, completely equipped with the usual 
necessaries. In addition, it is advisable to take a spare 
treadle pin, a few spare nuts, a cake of Front's elastic glue 



for possible tyre cementing, some stout whipcord, and a 
waterproof saddle cover. It is better not to carry a lamp. 
All night riding should be struck out of any programme of 
continental travel. It does not coincide with any rational 
ideas of pleasure, and in a foreign country is more than 
likely to prove dangerous, besides being against one of the 
first objects of a tour — the enjoyment of the country one 
intends to pass through. 

Next to the machine the most important consideration is 
clothing. It is above all things most desirable to take two 
complete changes, one for riding, the other for use when 
not riding. For riding there are few things to excel a thin 
pair of knickerbockers, an alpaca or light tweed coat, and a 
thin, thoroughly shrunk flannel shirt. Those who have 
once ridden in knickerbockers will agree, I think, in saying 
how infinitely superior they are for comfort to the tight 
and perspiration-producing knee breeches. Indeed, a 
crusade against the latter would be, in my opinion, as 
justifiable and laudable as that carried out against the 
hideous and vulgar jockey cap. Headgear is an important 
element of clothing fraught with various and diverse 
difficulties. I confess to many misgivings upon the question 
myself. I have tried straw hat, polo cap, cricket cap, and 
helmet. For comfort, shade, and coolness, the latter 
claims precedence over all the others, but in appearance it 
retreats before them precipitately. I can, however, 
remember no more satisfactory headgear than the well- 
ventilated helmet worn on more than one tour, imper- 
vious alike to rain or sunshine, its capacious propor- 
tions large enough almost to shelter back, shoulders and 
all. Black canvas shoes, with leather straps over the front 
part, and with leather backs and stout leather soles, are 
preferable to any others, as they more quickly dry in 
the event of a wet ride, and they are easy and comfortable 
to the feet. A macintosh can be carried or not, as the 
inclination of the individual rider dictates. 

Now as to baggage. On my last continental tour I carried 
the following : — ^A thin suit of clothes, thin cotton shirt, 
spare flannel shirt, four Indian jerseys, two pairs socks, one 
pair thin patent leather boots, six pocket handkerchiefs, 
celluloid collar, tie, cloth hat, braces, razor, toothbush, soap 
(the little books of soap-sheets are equally good), sponge, 
brush, pocket comb, tobacco, pipe. For possible tailoring 
operations, needles and thread, a few pieces of cloth, and a 
pair of nail scissors were taken, and they proved most 
useful. A tiny medicine chest consisting of a small bottle 
of arnica, and another of vaseline, some lint, a bottle of 
chlorodyne, some goldbeater's skin, and a supply of fuller's 
earth, was not omitted. All these were packed in one of 
Anderson, Abbott and Anderson's admirable handle bags, 
and a knapsack which has seen much service in various 
parts. The lattermight prove irksome to those unaccustomed 
to it, and a multum could be substituted. I cannot speak 
too highly of Anderson's bag. Its capacity is great; its 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



convenience and simplicity greater. It is not at all 
unlikely that by ordering an extra sized bag, a knapsack or 
multum might be dispensed with, and a small saddle bag 
substituted. 

There are one or two additions to the above which are 
indispensable. A good guide book is the first. If you are 
not a brilliant linguist, a small pocket dictionary is the 
second. For France, and countries where French is under- 
stood, nothing will beat Bellow's English-French Pocket 
Dictionary (price 10s 6d). The same author is compiling, 
or has published an English-German Dictionary on the 
same plan. The third addition is a reliable map. As a 
rule, the reduced Ordnance Survey of the particular country 
you are about to visit is the best. Such maps can always 
be obtained at Stanford's, or through his agency, and they 
well repay the trouble of carrying owing to their accuracy 
and clearness. Finally, it is always well to carry a passport. 
The cost and trouble of obtaining it (and when once obtained 
it is good for life) are absurd in proportion to the service it 
may render you at unexpected times. 

I am quite prepared to believe that many tourists will 
consider the above outfit too complete. Let the doubting 
ones give it a trial, and when they experience the comfort 
and comparative luxury it will be the means of affording 
them at the close of a hot and dusty, or perhaps wet and 
windy day's ride, they will solemnly resolve never to dis- 
pense with it in future. It will be the means, besides, of 
making them presentable and civilised-looking beings at 
crowded continental table d^Mtes, or in crowded continental 
streets, where the vagaries of the travelling Englishman are 
already suificiently pronounced to render it desirable they 
should not be enhanced by the appearance of the English 
wheelman in his somewhat decided garb. Depend upon it 
that although you may possess the gaatronomical capacity 
of an Alison, the airy spirits of a Scrutton, the pottering 
genius of a Qodlee, you will not be happy if your visible 
and invisible raiment is wet with the dews of many sweats 
and you have not the wherewithal to enable you for the 
time being to discard it. In such circumstances a change of 
clothing means a mind at rest and a body refreshed. 

A hint as to the journey from England may not be amiss. 
It is always advisible before starting to write to some re- 
sponsible Ofl&cial as to the rates of carriage for bicycles. Do 
not rely on published information ; it is often wrong. If 
more than one rider should be starting it is quite possible 
a reduction in terms may be conceded.; and do not forget 
to arm yourself with the oflBcial letter to this effect for pro- 
duction to any booking clerk who may be anxious to charge 
you fancy rates. If bicycles are charged according to weight 
do not let them be weighed with the luggage strapped on. 
It may make all the difference. 

As to the time of year for travelling it must, of course, 
depend upon the country to be visited. It is obvious that 
the height of summer cannot be chosen for a tour in 



Southern climes, or the early spring or late autumn for 
travelling in Northern latitudes. The season of travel 
must be governed by circumstances, and it will therefore be 
unnecessary to offer any superfluous remarks on the subject. 

Avoid second-rate hotels ; they are a delusion and a 
snare. Avoid equally those where English most do con- 
gregate ; they are generally dens of extortion and over- 
charge. The best hotel to go to is that which caters for 
the best class of native travellers. There you will almost 
invariably meet with good cooking, genuine foreign manners 
and customs, civility and honesty. The sanitary arrange- 
ments may, perhaps, be a trifle primitive ; but shake off 
insular prejudices, for a time at least, if you can, and allow 
yourself to make acquaintance, not only with the country 
you may be visiting, but also with its people and their mode 
of life as far as you are able. 

Keep to main roads as a general rule; by-roads are 
mostly bad ; and do not forget the difference in the rule 
of the road which obtains in every foreign country except 
Bohemia from that which obtains in England, — to keep 
to the right side. 

The cost of a continental tour will mostly depend upon 
the rider. Speaking generally it is very moderate, and I 
think the sum of ten shillings a day, exclusive of travelling, 
will be found suflBcient to cover all reasonable expenditure. 

I have done. I have tried to be exhaustive, but I feel 
how vain has been the effort, and how the threshold of the 
subject I was ordered to write about only has been touched. 
I also feel how presumptuous it has been in me to offer a 
few hints on Continental Touring in the Gazbtte of a Club 
which contains so many continental tourists of far wider 
experience. To the tender mercies of indulgent readers I 
commit this fragmentary effusion, begging them to visit the 
Editor — who was its First Cause — ^with all the blame, and to 
accord to me all the praise — ^if any is due. 

R. P. H. R. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sib, — Now that our Gazette is making its appearance 
once a w^ek, I trust I shall not be encroaching too much 
on its space to write on a subject I have long wanted to see 
noticed. I had hoped that some with more knowledge of 
the working of the Club than myself would have ventilated 
the matter ; but as no one has taken it up, I feel that 
I ought not to procrastinate any longer. I wish to say a 
few words on the d<ite of the Club dinner. Has it never 
occurred to any of those gathered round the festive board 
how very few resident 'Varsity members ever put in an 
appearance? What is the reason of this paucity ? Lack 
of interest in the Club? No. The "Spartan life" (?) 
led by them during term time producing a distaste for such 
festivities ? Possible, but highly improbable. What then ? 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



143 



Great personal inconvenience. Now, sir, I contend that 
if the date of the dinner was fixed a fortnight later — say 
between the 6th and 10th of December — ^we should have 
the pleasure of seeing more 'Varsity members present. 
Of late years, th^ date has generally been fixed sufficiently 
near the end of term to preclude the possibility of men 
getting leave of absence. In fact, last November an 
enthusiastic member of both Clubs confided to me that 
he dare not a^k for another " absit" firom his tutor, as he 
had already that term buried an uncle, grandfather and 
grandmother ; and on the last application the tutor had 
informed him that he must not have any more family 
bereavements before the end of term!! I quote the 
above, not as pointing to the moral good the Club might 
effect by accepting my humble suggestion — and so dis- 
countenancing deception — but rather as insinuating that 
the tutors — misguided race — value the results of examina- 
tions more than attendance at Club dinners. To fix our 
date within a week of the exams, is to fly in the face of 
the powers that be, and to this cause done I attribute 
what appears to be the unconviviality of 'Varsity members. 
Being mindful, sir, of your declaration, and fearful — ^mighty 
fearful— of our governing body, I shall shift the responsi- 
bility of these remarks to your shoulders and be known 
only as Delta. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The " National Cyclists' Union " came into existence on 
Thursday, the 14th inst., vice the "Bicycle Union," killed 
by tricyclists. About two hours' debate was expended on 
the change, Hampton-Roberts and Scmtton supporting the 
name " wheelman," and the combination, " National Union 
of Wheelmen,'' but they were left in a minority, of which 
it is hoped the quality made up for the lack of quantity. 

• »*••• 

Howell has beaten Keen in a mile at Wolverhampton in 
2.47, the half-mile being said to be done in 1.16, being 
record time. 

«••••• 

Report says that the C.T.C. Gazette are going to bring 
out a Christmas number at the end of the year in the 
shape of their handbook. 

• •»«•• 

The following time-standards have been fixed for the 
Bicycle Championships : — 1 mile, 2 min. 48 sec. ; 5 miles, 
15 min. 10 sec. ; 25 miles, 1 hr. 20 min. ; 50 miles^ 
2 hr. 50 min. 

A silver medal will be given to the winner of the fastest 

heat (other than the final) in each of the Tricycle 

Championship Races. 

«««•«« 

The Two Mile Challenge Cup at the L.A.C. Meeting on 
Saturday was a match between Wyndhain and F. L. Adam, 



which, after a waiting race, Wyndham won by less than a 

yard, in 6 min. 16^ sec. 

• • • • • • 

The Three Miles Handicap resulted in a benefit for the 
limit man ; the three placed men having respectively 460, 
250, and 300 yards. Liles was at scratch, and F. L. Adam 
(20), Wyndham (40), and 0. Thorn (160), represented the 
L.B.C. 

The Twenty-five Miles Championship is fixed for August 
2nd, at Taunton. West, King, and Fry are the only local 
men with any pretensions to championship honours ; indeed 
Birmingham looks like securing all the Championships this 
year. 

• «•««• 

The 100 miles match between Lowndes and Nixon on 

tricycles was decided last Monday at the Crystal Palace. 

Lowndes led at 50 miles, but in the 52nd mile an accident 

happened to his machine, which enabled Nixon to get ahead. 

Nixon completed 60 miles in 4hr. 12 min. 10 sec., Lowndes 

being about 3 minutes behind. The latter however retired 

in his 62nd mile, and Nixon, going on, covered the distance 

in 7 hr. 23 min. 50 sec, beating all records. I need hardly 

say this is an extraordinary performance. 

«««•«« 

The bicycle has found its way into the Law Courts ; and 
not in an assault case. In Bown v, Humber, in the Court 
of Chancery this week, Mr. Justice North has been investi- 
gating the patents as to ball bearings. The court has been 
blocked with bicycles and bicyclists, and Sir Frederick 
Bramwell has been discoursing learnedly on the engineering 
merits of different bearings. At the time of going to press 
I hear that a judgment for the defendants is probable. 

The twenty-four hours' ** Facile " race on Saturday last 
was won by Adams, covering 220 miles, 7 furlongs, or 
6 miles longer than Snook's ride of last year. The second 
man did 219 miles. 

Lowndes, in a trial spin at Surbiton on Friday last, 

clocked by 0. Atkinson, beat all tricycling records from 

1 to 10 miles ; doing 1 mile in 3 min. 5 sec, 5 miles in 

16 min. 19 sec, and 10 miles in 32 min. 33f sec 

««•««« 

Oosset, of the Temple, .has also beaten the tricycling; 

record by covering 207^ miles in the twenty-four hours 

on the road. 

«««••« 

The Editor and H. R. Beynolds played their Tennis tie 
on Wednesday evening in miserable weather, the ground 
being very slippery. H. R. started with a love set ; the 
second set was keenly fought, the score standing at " three 
games all," and " deuce " in the seventh game, when the 
Editor had a severe tumble, which spoilt his play for the 
remainder of the set, which H. R. won easily. 

The Fbokt Whbel Hub. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Fliny ddWer it that tne porpentine casteth 6fi[ hi^nillB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, bnt Dioeoorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to beUeve it**-— Sir T. Bbowns. 

The holiday season is commencing, the Sub-Editor 
haying departed (on his bicycle) for Scottish roads, an 
account of which will doubtl&s enliven our pages on his 
return. The Editor at present is in sole command, and I 
hear that the staff long for the gentle rule of the departed 
one. 

• ••••• 

I hope all our members will contribute to the Ga£ettb 
dead season by sending notes, long or shorty of their holiday 
tours and adventures. 

The Editor tried his first tricycle the other day ; he 
thinks it rather hard work, and has not yet ordered a 
three-wheeler. 

*••«•• 

Another revival in the N.E. ! Three much respected 
veterans (one an O.M.) turned out, after a long absence, 
for the Chigwell meet ! ! and the married ones did not go 
home to tea. 

• ••••• 

" Sweets to the sweet " is all very well in theory, but 
just you throw a lump of sugar across the grass in the 
direction of the waitress of the " King's Head," and see 
what you get ; it would be advisable to finish the milk 
before the experiment, ii may be too sour afterwards. 
«•••«■ 

Notwithstanding the boasts about N.E. organization, the 
steady going member effected the threatened change in 
his headgear last Saturday ; (hence the cloudy afternoon). 
«••••• 

The S.E. B.C. caused some anxiety to his firiends by his 
emptying the contents of the milk jug into the teapot at 
Chigwell. It was only a fit of absent-mindedness and 
nothing more. 

« • • • ' ■ « • 

Several complaints were heard about the surface of the 
road between Croydon and Woolwich. It naturally would 
seem a little rough after the Crystal Palace Track. 

• •««•• 

One S.E. member . at ^4tiy tate seemed quite au fait 
at Essex runs. The ttiaBv^n which he skimmed lightly 
over the vilest ma^sdihdflQ^ showed the way through the 
labyrinth of Wejihmh' ^Stfais, while he positively revelled 
in the pleftil\ii^'(?) of crossing the tideway — was enough 
to command the admiration o^ anyone who was a novice 
in the art. 

POROUPINB. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bnle 40 enacts that no member represent the Clnb at any race meeting 
without perminion from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been nibmitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
membets racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

June 28.~Rovers B.C. at Oystal Palace. Evening Race 
Meeting. 

30.— speedwell Sports at Aston Lower Grounds, 

Bij^ningham. 
80. — ^A^A. A. Championships at Lillie Bridge. 
.80.— Brixton Ramblers B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
80.— Edinburgh University B.C. Sports. 
July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 

7.— Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridga 
7.— B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle 

Championships at Birmingham. 
7. — ^Lewisham B.C. at C!r]rstal Palace. 
10. — National Temperance League — ^Band of Hope 
Union. Two Miles Open, at Crjrstal Palace. 
Entries close June 80th. 
14. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 
Palace. 

25.— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
28. — Races at Bristol Meet. 
Aug. 1. — Leamington and S.W.B.C. Meeting. 

2. — ^Twenty-five Miles Championship at Taunton. 
2. — Hammersmith B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
4 and 6.— W. Lancashire B.C. Autumn Sports at 
Liverpool. 

6 and 7.— North of England Cyclists' Meet Races. 
Sept. 15.— Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



EXCHANGE LIST. 
For Sale. — My 59-in " Humber " racer, new last year ; 
only raced upon in L.B.C. and O.U.Bi.C. Match, 1882. 
Thoroughly done up, painted, plated, and anew front wheel 
tyre this year. B^M pedals. Never had a fall. Cost £21 
when new. Aa good as new, price £14. Apply to W. F. 
M. Buckley, Christ^hurch, Oxford. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU oontribntionB mnst be addreesed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Oasette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.O.,*' aad mnst bear the name of tiie author, though not 
necessarily tor insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be reoeived not 
later than Tuesday eyening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dablinq Sl Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, Eastcheap, London, E.C.^one 28, 1888. 



Digitized by 



m&m 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 18.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All riffhts retenred.] 



July 6, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The Private Member.. 

Treasurer's Notice 

Saturday Runs 

Club Meets 

A Trip to the Hooter.. 
All Round the Wheel.. 



146 
146 
146 
147 
147 
149 



PAOB 



A Tour subsequent to that of the " Rhine Eight " 1 49 

Quills 162 

Racing Fixtures 152 

Exchange List 162 

Editorial Note 152 

Notice to Correspondents 162 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gwette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 

THE PRIVATE MEMBER. 

It has been remarked with some truth that the oiBcers 
and committee of the London Bicycle Club would form in 
their own persons one of the most influential clubs in the 
metropolis. Yet in spite of the failure of the attempt made 
at the General Meeting in January, to introduce new blood 
in place of some of the old hands who were willing to serve, 
it is obvious that the constitution of tlie Committee is very 
similar to that of the tank over the problem of which we 
used to ponder at school, which was filled by the action of 
one tap and emptied by another. It is then to the ordinary 
members that the Club must look for reinforcements, and 
this is the clue to the line of conduct which ought to be 
persued by them. 

The subject of our article may be described, as we have 
said, as one who has no seat upon the Committee; not 
indeed precluding the occasional possibility of his sitting 
upon that body for a short time as at a general meeting, 
but pointing to the fact that as a rule he reposes elsewhere. 
The only question that may arise as to definition is whether 
or not the regular racing member comes under our heading. 
He is the representative of tlie Club in the racing world, 
and is acting continually under its title in public ; but on 
the other hand he can hardly be considered as a duly 
"accredited agent." 



The private member may be roughly divided into three 
classes, according to the volume of his energy. The first is 
but small, consisting mostly of ex-ofiicers, but though the 
task would be all too easy, and though we have been fur- 
nished by Mr. Labouchere with a quasi-parliamentary 
precedent, we do not propose to draw up a list of those 
who may in our opinion be entitled to a place in it. They 
may be known by their deeds. At the Annual General 
Meeting not only are they invariably present, but they 
have deeply considered the proposals to be made, and have 
evolved ideas and amendments which they are ready to 
support, if necessary, even in the teeth of the magnates of 
the Committee bench. They may be recognised at the 
General Club Meets by the fact tiiat somehow or other 
their acquaintance with members of Districts other than 
their own is unusually large, though their own men will 
remember that they have hwUy strayed once during the 
season. They are very prompt in sending up to the 
Gazette any information of which they may become pos- 
sessed, while the number of tickets and entries for which 
they are responsible would alone be sufficient to fill a small 
concert room or handicap. 

The second class is made up of the majority of the un- 
official members. They may be seen with their Districts 
on fine Saturdays, but from their point of view their own 
pleasure is the sole reason which should determine their 
movements, and if the tennis court or the river should 
appear likely to afford a more liberal supply of that which 
they seek, they feel no sort of compunction in indulging 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 LONDON BICYCLE 



their whim, Club duty being to them a thing unknown. 
An offender of this class, if taken to task, will tell you 
^hat he has the utmost confidence in the ability of the 
officers to manage the Club satisfactorily, and will begin to 
descant on its present prosperous and flourishing condition. 
Now we are of opinion that this soothing adulation to 
which we are occasionally subjected by some of our members, 
and by the outside bicycling press, is one of the most subtle 
dangers that assail us in our onward career ; and we would 
suggest that in case of a new cover being decided upon for 
the Gazette, it should be decorated with a carefully 
executed drawing illustrative of the well-known fable of 
the Brahmin and the Sheep, which would not only be an 
additional attraction in itself, but would serve as a weekly 
reminder of the sentiment that it is unwise to believe 
everything one is told on questions that intimately concern 
oneself. 

Lastly, there are those whose boast it is that they have 
never attended a general meeting, who seldom if ever 
appear on the road, and whose only friends in the Club are 
their introducer and seconder who, may be, are a little 
disgusted with their apathy. It is of course true that some 
members are unable to take any active part in the Club's life, 
and in the case of its tried servants this is quite excusable, 
but to enjoy the " otium " without having previously 
acquired the "di^nitas" is a preposterous proceeding, and 
a course which no right-minded member can possibly be 
justified in pursuing. 

With these few remarks we must leave our readers to 
decide for themselves to which class they do, and to which 
they ought to belong. 

TREASURER'S NOTICE. 
I must refer those members who have not yet sent me 
their subscriptions to Rule 18, and must ask them to kindly 
let me have them as early as possible. 

R. B. HouoH. 

151, Amhurst Road, Hackney. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. Dis^&icT. 
June SOtk— The Forest Gate contingent, with the Trea- 
surer, alone represented the little district at Stifford, 
though other members were mmoared to be taking tea in 
surrounding villages. The F. G. C. were first to arrive, and 
found a capital tea ready for them at the Dog and Fart- 
ridge." Their route led through Rainham, Chaffinch Lane, 
and Aveley, and be it further noted, they rode Stifford Hill 
to a man. This also was subsequently done by the Trea- 
surer, who arrived late, and stayed only three minutes 
before remounting for his return journey alone. The 
F. G. C. then rode on to Rochester, crossing at Tilbury, 
and visiting on their way Hangman's Wood, through which 
their course lay along a delightful and rideable footpath 
about two miles long. In the centre of the wood are 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



the Dane's Ffoles, which were duly visited for the benefit 
of a member to whom these strange places were known 
only by repute; Present: R. Hough. Ashley Barrett, 
Ernest Barrett, and two visitors, Arthur Barrett and 
Fred. Barrett. 



W. District. 

I believe I was the only member of the West who fell in 
with the South East. I left the Palace after the Brixton 
Ramblers' Meeting, rode to Croydon, trained to Epsom, and 
rode to Leatherhead. I passed in succession Stephen Smith, 
H. G. A. Brown, and the main body of the South East just 
outside Leatherhead, returning. •Waited half an hour for 
any West or South West men going my way, and then as 
no one had sighted me I returned alone by Kingston aud 
Richmond. Reached home just after midnight. 

J. S. Whatton. 

The West District Captain writes from Henley-on-Thames, 
where he is enjoying his holiday, expressing his great regret 
that, owing to the unexpected amount of business he had 
to attend to during the fortnight before he left London, he 
had no time to mske arrangements for a substitute, or even 
to write to the Editor to give notice of his absence. He 
hopes to be back in time to be present at the nm to 
Bumham Beeches, and that in the meantime those of last 
Saturday and aext may be well attended and duly 
reported. 

N.W. District. 
June 30th. — No doubt the thunderstorm of tlie previous 
night, and the threatening appearance of the weathen 
combined with the heat, deterred some of our members from 
attending our favourite run to Little Berkhempstead. The 
lack of interest which is taken by the greater number of 
N.W. men in the proceeding of the district is having a 
marked effect on those few who do put in an appearance 
now and again. I hope our new D.C., as soon as he returns, 
will be able to wake men up from their state of apathy. 
Only Jackson and I met at Tally ho ! and after giving a 
few minutes grace we rode quietly to our destination by 
way of Carbon Hill and Newgate Street. The roads 
were in capital order after the rain, and the country 
looked quite freshened up, the hedges being brightened by 
large quantities of dog-roses. Hindley came up a few 
minutes after ouf 'arrival, having lost his way, as usual, in 
the meandering lanes round this little village. We were 
joined at intervals by Elgood and Price, which made oar 
muster up to five. The ride home was much enjoyed, the 
breeze against us being quite the reverse of uncomfortable. 
Present : Elgood, Hindley, Jackson, Price, and 

W. J. Williams, /<;/• District Captain. 

Run next Saturday to Shenley, when there will be two 
attractions — to meet our new D.C. (probably for the first 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



147 ^ 



time), and plenty of good strawberries. I hope there will 
be, just for once, one of our old meets — sixteen or seven- 
teen men, say. 

S.E. District. 
A more lovely afternoon than last Saturday it is not 
easy to imagine ; of course it was a trifle warm, but still 
yre were very fortunate in having such wefkther for our run 
to Mickleham and Box Hill. "We wer^ seven" who left 
the starting point soon after half-past four, and made for 
Ewel], via Duppas Uill and Beddington. Before long we 
received several additions to our ranks, and at one time 
the party numbered no less than fourteen.. The first thing 
to mar the even tenour of our way was an unfortunate 
collision between Stephen Smith and a small boy. Result : 
collapse of small boy and Smith's machine. However, as the 
occurrence took place in Sutton, and no bones were broken. 
Sharp kindly lent his machine, so that Smith was able to finish 
the run. On pulling up at the " Glyn Arms," we learnt that 
W. A. Smith was fishing close by at Ewell Mill. As we 
were rather behind time, we repressed our natural anxiety 
to see the grand basket of fish we felt sure he had caught, 
and kept steadily on through Leatherhead to the " Beehive 
Inn," between Mickleham and Dorking. Here J. C. Oswald 
and the O'Reilly were waiting for us, and as the West and 
South-west failed to put in an appearanee we sat down to 
tea at seven o'clock. After a smoke in the garden, we 



followed the zigzag road up Box Hill in Indian file. On 
the way up we met H. 6. A. Brown, m route for the 
" Beehive," and in the hope that he might catch us up on 
the way back we prolonged a contemplative pipe, under 
the influence of which we were taking in the glorious 
view from the top. As the sun sank the scene faded, 
and still he came not ; so we made a fresh start a little' 
after nine and proceeded leisurely homewards, through 
the dusky lanes by Burgh Heath and Banstead. We 
reached Croydon just at the same time as Brown, who 
made his return journey round by Leatherhead, and the 
remainder of our party broke up after one of the most 
pleasant runs we have had this year. Present : A. Barker, 
H. 6. A. Brown, Halliday, Hartridge, Alfred Herbert, 
S. Herbert, McRae, The O'Reilly, J. 0. Oswald, W. 0. 
Oswald, PauU, L. Potter, H. N. Sharp, S. P. Smith, 
Whealler, F. H. Williams, Willis, R- G. Francis, and 
Oswald's Manchester terrier "Roger." 



It is hardly necessary to call attention to our meet next 
Saturday. It may be summed up in the term "short and 
sweet." The run is certainly an easy one, and the fare at 
the " White Hart," Bletchingley, is proverbial. The Croy- 
don men will wait at the Fire Station for the Blackheath 
Division until 4.30. 

R. G. F&ANCis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


aw. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


Blackheath Division. 


July 7. 


Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Syborn*s Comer 
3.45, for Okgab. 


8.46, « Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Shin- 
let. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill HiU Road, 
Acton, 8.45, for 

OOKHAIL 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for RiFLST. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

BLBTOHIKaLIT. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 8.80, for 
BLnoHuroLiT. 




' Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
8 .45, for CnsHUVT. 
' MeetN.W. 


8.45, Jack Straw's 
CasUe," for Chbs- 
worn, MeetN.E. 


3.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage. Mill Hill 
Road, Acton, for 

BUBNHAM BXBOBIS. 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 

4.0, for BUSNHAH 

BnoBsa. MeetW. 


4.16, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Wbtbbhim. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 4.0, for 
WunBKAX. 



A TRIP TO THE "HOOTER." 
Newbury, on Whit Monday about 11 a.in., is a goal to 
which many a thirsty soul panting undev the broiling sun, 
as he struggles to win the small disc of yellow metal which 
he trusts will repay him for his labour, looks with eager 
eyes ; but the same town after a residence of some eight 
days, during one half of which the flood-gates of heaven have 
ruthlessly discharged their torrents, and when rude Boreas 
has done his best to spoil the remaining few days by his 
persistent endeavours to ruin the fishing, is not perhaps so 
eagerly to be sought after, and great was the relief to the 
mind of yours truly, when a letter from J. W. Allison 
infoi«Ded him that he, the said J. W. A., would arrive at 



Newbury on Saturday, May 27th, prepared for a trip to 
that ancient relic, yclept " Ye White Horse," and the many 
mysteries of the surrounding country. Early on Saturday 
the fishing-rod was again put into requisition, in the hopes 
that sufficient of the wily trout could be lured from their 
haunts to supply the expected arrival with that toothsome 
delicacy for breakfast, but the weather was dead against 
sport, and only two brace found their way into the pannier. 
As night wore on and A. did not come, the solitary one's 
spirits began to droop, but suddenly, far away down North- 
brook Street, a long dark line appeared, and part of it was 
soon discussing Gorgonzola cheese, salad, and excellent 
bitter ale in Mr. Staple's (the confectioner's) comfortable 



Google 



Digitized by 



148 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



little room. Dalton was reported to Lave just gone to 
the "Checquers Inn." The conversation soon turned 
to the most prominent topic — Bath Trial— and it is 
worthy of notice that both men picked the winner. 
The following day was luckily very fine, and, after calling 
for Dalton, the trio, mounted on a " Humber " bicycle, 
ditto tricycle, and an ** Excelsior" bicycle respectively, 
rode round by Shaw Mills to Shaw House, where the 
" Martyr King " spent the night before the battle of 
Newbury ; thence into the Ilsley road, and branching off 
to the left when opposite the ruins of Donnington Castle, 
passed over a glorious road at a great elevation through 
Snelsmore Common, and so on to a long, rough, and dange- 
rous descent called Bussick Hill." The road ran through 
some charming scenery, but we soon came to another nasty, 
rough descent, the latter part of which Dalton took full 
speed, to the intense surprise of a local 'cyclist who was 
walking up. Keeping slightly to the left at the "Blue 
Boar Inn," we found nice running to Lilly, and so on 
through Famborough Coppice, but on arriving at the fork 
in the road where the finger post points to Wantage and 
Farnborongh, we turned towards the former town and found 
the surface very bad for some distance. On a suggestion 
being made that we must be al an elevation of nearly 1000 
feet, the Northern Guide was incredulous, and said that 
Scutchamfiy Knob " was not quite so high as that ; but 
when informed that he was gazing at the summit of the 
" Knob " itself he agreed that we were tolerably well up 
in the world. Leaving the two lazy bicyclists reclining on 
the mossy turf, the three-wheeler pursued his way to the 
summit, where a magnificent expanse of country spread out 
at his feet, and after drinking in as much of its beauty as 
possible, and noting the extremely dangerous descent leading 
to Wantage, locally known as Chain Hill, he returned to 
seek the two lazy ones, but found them not. What was to 
be done? Red House and the Ridgway, or "Budge" as 
the yokels call it, had been mentioned as part of the desti- 
nation, so he commenced to wheel his tri. along the " Rudge," 
and before reaching the Red House, some two miles 
distant, had quite come to the conclusion that, although 
a grand machine to ride, for pushing purposes the 
"Humber" tri. was about the meanest thing out. Besides 
which, the driver began to find that he was sufieriug 
from a nasty dry thirst, and that the only thing he could 
obtain wherewith to quench it was rain water. Red House 
was at last reached, but no trace of the missing ones found, 
so he carefully descended the tremendous hill known as 
Red House or Workhouse Hill, leading into Wantage, at 
the foot of which the truants were discovered, and were 
easily prevailed upon to return to the " Bear," at Wantage, 
to dine. In the market-place is one of the grandest monu- 
ments I have seen. The subject is, " Alfred the Great," 
and the sculptor (Count Gleichen ?) has made the most of 
it. It was presented by Colonel Loyd Lindsay. The 



power (mental ainl physical) expressed in this work of aft 
is thoroughly characteristic of the mighty Saxon monarch, 
whose birthplace was Wantage. By the bye, I forgot to 
mention that thertwo truants had, after dodging me in some 
mysterious manner, gone straight to the town, Dalton 
actually riding down Chain Hill, a feat worthy of record. 
While dinner was preparing, we had a look at the church, 
finding some fine Norman portions ; curiously enough, like 
Romsey Abbey, it has no western porch or door, so may 
originally have been conventual. After every attention 
at " The Bear," and a capital repast with moderate charges, 
we ordered tea to be ready on our return and started off to 
find the " Blowiwg Stone," " Blawin Stwun," or " Hooter," 
as it is called locally. After one or two stiff hills the route 
became of a more undulating nature, and we soon heard in 
the distance that«ome one was already " tootling " on King 
Alfred's little "war-horn." Sure enough, there it was, 
glued to the mouth of a rustic standing in the porch of the 
little inn at the foot of '* Blawin Stwun Hill " (said to be 
the steepest In Berks). A nearer glance, however, showed 
that the article glued, etc., as aforesaid, was not the 
Stwun," but a stone mug of ale, and the real thing was 
found "under a spreading chestnut tree" which abutted 
on the road. First one and then another of the trio 
applied himself to the task of sounding the monster, 
but although they all, Dalton especially, blew until nigh 
unto bursting, no sound did the holey rock give forth. 
When, however, a small boy applied himself to the 
orifice, the trumpet sounded forth the call to arms, 
and on the heigJds of Vffington Castle the Danish host 
appeared, with waving banners, Alfred himself leads the 
attack upon them, and the Saxons fiercely Jight their way up 
the heights U7itil the gory streams pour down the rugged 
sides of St. George's Mount. Hullo ! Why, what's up 
now, McCullum ? I beg your pardon, really, but the 
whole scene enacted here some thousand years ago came 
so vividly before me that I was just going to tell you all 
about the battle of Ashdown, from an eyewitness's point of 
view. Seriously speaking, every true-born Englishman, when 
gazing on these remarkable mementos of a past age, must 
feel a thrill of exultation at the recollection of the glorious 
victory obtained here over those heathen invaders the 
Danes by the skill and bravery of him whose stone effigy 
now dominates O3f0r Wantage market-place, for it should 
not be forgotten that this victory entirely broke the Danish 
power in Britain, and made us the great Anglo-Saxon and 
Christian race of the present day. Well, mine host 
Godfirey's ginger beer was found so nice that no less than 
six bottles disappeared forthwith, and being thus fortified 
we struggled up a long rough hill, on the road skirting the 
foot of the downs, in the direction of the " White Horse." 
Presently we came to a sharp fall in the road, which at the 
bottom turned at almost a right angle, and rose very 
abruptly and stifily. This required great care, and might 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



149 



appropriately be called ''the Devil's Elbow/' and about 
another mile brought us opposite the " White Horse/' or 
rather what is left of it. This true and original relic must 
not be imagined to be like that much more modern affair 
on Cher Hill, which men riding from Bath vid Calne see on 
their right, as the outline is not anything like so distinct, 
and, moreoyer, it is in a galloping position. The people of 
the district formerly had what was call^ the "Revels" every 
few years, and your deponent has a' vivid recollection of 
seeing one of them. On these occasions the "scouring of 
the white horse," as depicted in Tom Brown* 8 School Days, 
took place, and there was great jollity ; and I well re- 
member a race down the side of the steep hill by the "horse," 
for a cheese trundled down the incline, and followed by a 
mob anxious to obtain possession of it, the said mob rolling 
over and over in their eagerness to get the prize, which was 
eventually won by a sweep. This, however, like many 
other good old English customs, has now fallen into disuse, 
and so the turf keeps encroaching, and every year renders 
the old " White Horse " less shapely. At the summit of the 
hill there is a grand British fortification called " Uffington 
Castle," and a little more than a mile to the right, along 
the ridgeway, is Wayland Smith's Cave (it stands in the 
centre of a little clump of trees and bushes). This cromlech 
has been immortalised by Sir Walter Scott. As we were 
just thinking about making our way back to Wantage, the 
thought struck me to go to Uffington Station and meet the 
men who were going down to Bath, and forthwith we carried 
it out ; and after providing ourselves with a plentiful supply 
of new milk and bread and butter, welbok possession of the 
railway platform and waited patiently for the train, which 
was, of course, very late. The cooling beverage was much 
appreciated, and after many good wishes for the morrow 
the train .crawled on to Bath, while the trio returned to 
Wantage vid Challow, over capital and level roads. Tea waa 
quite ready at " The Bear," but as we had done fairly well 
at Uffington we did not trouble it srich, but made a start 
back vid Red House. The top of this eminence being 
gained (observe the fine British camp right) the road falls 
for miles, and the N.G., who always ctamson the pace after 
tea, got right away out of sight, but was overtaken before 
reaching the junction of the Newbury and Lamboume road. 
Before reaching Welford it was getting quite dusk, and we 
had to light our lamps, eventually arriving at " The 
Chequers," at Newbury, just in time to learn that two or 
three of our men had gone through towards Bath. Thus 
ended one of the pleasantest excursions I have had for some 
time, and it seems a pity that this neglected spot (White 
Horse Vale) should not be more frequently visited by 
cyclists. The roads as a rule are good, the scenery is 
fine, and to the antiquarian the neighbourhood teems with 
interest. Later on I purpose giving some skeleton tours 
round Newbury. 

McCuLLUM Hul. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
Bown V, Humber has terminated in. a verdict for the 
defendant, with costs. The court was full of bicycles and 
bicyclists for three or four days ; Keen, Cooper, Humber, 
Vesey, the Wheelers, H. R. Reynolds, and the Editor being 
all on view. The bicycle may now be considered to have 
made another stage in its progress. One shudders to think 
of a tricycle patent case, e^ecially if every tricycle is to be 

brought in. 

• ••••• 

H. Smith won a Two^ Miles Handicap at Ealing with 
30 yards start last Saturday, but the chief racing in the 
London district was at the Palace, where the Brixton 
Ramblers had 102 entries for their Open Mile. The times 
were very fast throughout the afternoon, Thompson doing 
2.44 from scratch, his first quarter being covered in 40| sec, 
thus beating Cortis' record of 41. 

• ♦ • ♦ • ^ • 

The long-start division however supplied the winners, 
Macbeth, of Clapham Park, with 115 yards, covering the 
distance in 2 min. 39| sec., rather too fast for the scratch 
men this year. 

Of the L.B.C., F. L. Adam, with 25 yards, won his heat 
in 2 min. 46} sec., and H. R. Reynolds, with 40 yards, did 
the same in 2 min. 49f sec, and Adam was third in his 
heat in the second round ; A. B. W. Whatton (25) and 
D. R. Smith (80; also rode. 

• ««*•• 

The Half-mile Scratch produced some good racing, 
Gaskell ultimately beating Thompson by ten yards in 
1 min. 20f sec, W. TL Adam being third. W. K. beat 
A. B. W. Whatton in his heat, and F. L. Adam was one 
yard behind Thompson in 1 min. 19} sec, the fastest time 
of the day, and record for the distance. 

The Championships begin on Saturday with the Five 
Miles Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle at Birmingham, where 
the Birmingham men will probably have it all their own 
way. I hear that our President is in hard training on the 
Crystal Palace track, and hopes to ride for the One and 
Fifty Miles. 

Thb Froot Wheel Hub. 



A TOUR SUBSEQUENT TO THAT OF THE 
"RHINE EIGHT," 

CoKTiNUiKo UP Stream betond Bale to the 
Falls at Schafhausen. 
The very interesting account given in the Gazette of 
the well-known tour of the "Rhine Eight" in 1879 will 
doubtless still be fresh in the memories of the older members 
of our Club, and this, together with those of more recent 
explorers, will form an invaluable guide to any future 



Digitized by ^^oo VIC 



150 LONDON BICYCLE CLTJB GAZETTE. 



members who may contemplate a similar and almost un- 
rivalled trip. Modelling our plan upon their experiences 
and with further supplementary hints from J. F. Darrell, we 
(A. H. Rolls, St. John Ryan, and R. M. Gruggen) started 
from St. Katharine's Wharf for Antwerp, to proceed thence 
by rail to Cologne. Tlie railway journey of twelve hours, 
following immediately after boating for a previous eighteen 
hours, became exceedingly tedidus ; and when are added to 
this six changes of train during the day it may readily be 
imagined that we were not sorry to be eventually rid of 
the monotony of this form of travelling. The cost of the 
passage " abaft the funnel" and of the railway to Cologne, 
including bicycle, was two pounds each, consequently we 
secured a fair start at a comparatively small cost. In one 
particular only we acted contrary to general advice, namely, 
in deciding to ride " up stream *' rather than " with it," as 
our worthy predecessors had done. Our chief reason for 
making this variation and selecting the stiffer gradient was 
to secure the possibility of seeing the Falls of the Rhine^ 
if we found on nearing them that time and funds would 
admit of our doing so. We left Cologne in the afternoon 
of Monday, the 16th August, 1880, and rode along the good 
roads and through the interesting country already described 
by the " Rhine Eight," by Bonn to Aldernach, where we 
stayed the night. Distance 40 miles. A fair here on the 
bank of the Hver Was both picturesque and amusing, and 
after loitering observantly for some little time we were 
attracted to a boneshaker roundabout." apparently one of 
the principal feature of the fair, consisting of a good round 
dozen of the most impossible-looking 'cycles attached to- 
gether, and describing a considerable circle. There was no 
steam power or system of churning to propel us ; the motive 
power was wholly personal, consequently, as bicyclists 
** wandering on a foreign strand," we felt it to be our duty 
to try and increase the ordinary rate of speed, which we 
did to a small extent at the cost of much labour on our 
parts and to the apparent satisfaction of other riders. Our 
next feat was to demonstrate the system of a rapid dis- 
mount whilst the " merry-go-round " was in motion, but in 
this the effect of the circular movement of the apparatus 
was not taken into consideration, and our representative, 
flying off at a tangent, amused rather than impressed the 
bystanders by the rapidity of his fall ! A second member 
of our party sustained a severe gash on the knee-cap 
through his leg becoming fixed between the crank and the 
underside of the handle-bar — the machine being too small 
for him. This second mishap, though painful, was con- 
cealed from the holiday makers at much personal incon- 
venience to avoid bringing ridicule upon the expedition, 
which praiseworthy conduct on the part of our member we 
greatly appreciated when we saw the extent of the wound. 
Subsequent roundabouts had no charm for us I 

Tuesday 17th. We passed through richer, and perhaps 
more lovely scenery, stopping first at the " Hotel Treves," 



at Coblentz, where the landlord was described as having 
already proved himself a " brick" in the previous year, and 
we quickly found that the lapse of time had apparently 
in no way subdued his exceeding good nature. Our host 
made many careful inquiries after all the " eight " members 
of the previous expedition, and specially referred to one of 
that party as having amused the inhabitants of Coblentz by 
treating them to a clever performance on the bicycle in the 
open space fronting his hotel After a most elaborate 
dinner, at which our host insisted upon our having cham- 
pagne, sparkling, from the neighbouring Moselle, and 
drinking success to cycling generally, and to the L.B.C. 
particularly, we quitted the premises of this most seductive 
landlord at four p.m., with a view to covering the forty-one 
more miles to Bingen. So pleasing had been this protracted 
stay, during which we had been treated with that amount 
of thoughtful attention commonly reserved for frequent 
visitors, and so unusual had been this experience that we 
hoped that these performances in public on the wheels had 
been often repeated further up the river ! This reception 
could only be attributed to the deep impression made by 
our predecessors, and their prestige we endeavoured to 
maintain by recounting to our interested and attentive 
host some of their fast performances on the road and path ! 
Coblentz to Bingen, in our opinion, proved the very finest 
part of the river until we reached Switzerland, and even 
there the magnificent grandeur of this afternoon ride would 
be difficult to surpass. We, of course, after our dissipation, 
reached Bingen^late, so much so that towards the end of 
the run the tone of the scenery was pleasingly changed and 
illumined by the light of the moon. Total distance 53 
miles. I will not repeat names of hotels, for we always 
put up at those that were recommended, and found them 
satisfactory. There are few towns on the Rhine without 
their baths constructed in the river, and these we seldom 
neglected to visit at least once a day. Bingen was very 
satisfactorily provide in this respect, and after the usual 
swim we rode to Mayence for lunch. Mayence is a strongly 
fortified town, containing a very fine Romanesque church in 
its centre. Only a very small swimming bath was to be found 
here, containing an extensive porpoise-like looking person, 
which vividly recalled to our minds visions of tanks at our 
Aquarium. Quitting Mayence we encountered paving and 
generally bad road to Ebersheim and Nierstein, and com- 
paratively indifferent scenery, until we rejoined the river 
and reached Oppenheim. The Hotel Ritter " contained 
interesting inhabitants, and proved both comfortable and 
moderate. Distance 33^ miles. 

Thursday, 19th. The ride from here through Gunters- 
'blum to Worms was unusually rough, but the excellence of 
the bath at Worms quickly dispelled all further reflections 
upon our troubles. Of course the visitor must not omit to 
examine the beauties of this celebrated Gathdral. In the 
small town of Frankenthal, which was next visited, a 

Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



151 



Yankee, with whom we casually conversed during an 
intended hasty lunch, seemed so oyerjoyed at being able 
to ventilate the amusing peculiarities of his language, where 
it had some chance of being understood, that we had much 
difficulty in getting away. In his enthusiasm we were 
assured that the Iron Foundry in the place must be visited, 
after, of course, due libations and many indifferent cigars, 
and in a weak moment we consented to accept him as 
pioneer. There was literally nothing to repay us for the 
walk of a mile, beyond a close inspection of an uninteresting 
*' shed," in which a great bell hctd been cast, and which, in 
the words of our informant, " now pealed from the tower of 
some adjacent Cathedral." The accomplishment of this 
great work had been the most important event ever 
witnessed at Frankenthal. If we had been in time to see 
its completion we might have felt more reconciled, but to 
have frittered away more hours in this useless -and 
unedifying manner seemed ridiculous. In bidding us 
farewell our talkative friend expressed his pleasure at 
the meeting, and finally concluded by hoping that any 
member of the L.B.C. visiting Fhiladelphii^ would make a 
point of calling upon him. The address, which dealt largely 
in numbers, may still be had ! Mounting on the boulders, we 
hastily left this little town, and had not covered many miles 
before each of us in turn was enabled to relate very recent 
experiences of a trip over the handles," with no serious 
damage. Next followed the disaster that bid fair to termi- 
nate the expedition. Having quietly entered Mannheim on 
our right and proper side of the way, and rounded a corner 
into the first wide suburban street, we perceived a distant 
open carriage coming towards us on dur side of the road- 
way. As it approached to within fifty yards we observed 
that the animal was becoming very restive, and on further 
perceiving that the vehicle was occupied we at once dis- 
mounted. Had the driver acted in a similar manner the 
subsequent accident must have been avoided, but instead 
of this he came steadily on, and still continued to fix his 
eyes upon the bicycles until he had driven to within about 
ten yards of us, and then apparently for the first time 
realising the excited condition of his steed he hurriedly 
endeavoured to turn round (still on our side of the way) 
in the space between the carriage and the curb. This 
space unhappily proved insufficient for the purpose, and 
the result of this error in judgment was that the wheels 
became locked, and almost before^^the male and two 
female occupants were aware of their danger they were 
quietly emptied into the wayside drains. Our part in 
this very unnecessary and somewhat amusing proceeding 
had been clearly passive, but blame was thrown upon 
us by the male victim, perhaps because he had seen 
nothing of the primary circumstances, and assumed the 
worst. The extent of the damage was a broken shaft and 
lamp, and, according to the driver's report, a broken arm. 
Having satisfied ourselves by inquiry that the ladies were un- 



hurt (we could see the male victim dripping on the pavement 
apparently full of rage, but otherwise undamaged), we 
prepared to quit the sympathetic crowd that had quickly 
assembled, and before doing so almost voluntarily left our 
intended address ("Lang's Hotel," Heidelberg)^ for the 
mutual satisfaction of this male victim and the police, 
thinking in our innocence that it would be impossible for 
any special blame to be attached to us. Their opportunity 
was not lost. Entering Heidelberg in the dark we were 
confronted by another form of danger, and this consisted 
in their adopting a single chain principle at the point 
where the railway line crossed the main street, in place of 
our system of railway gates. The novel arrangement nearly 
proved a serious snare for us, as we rode unsuspectingly 
towards this chain, which extends across the street about 
five feet above the ground. It is most difficult to see this 
black obstacle at night ; its whereabouts are made known 
to the inhabitants by placing a red lamp in the centre of 
the street immediately under it, a signal we did not 
appreciate, and narrowly escaped a spill on to the line 
in consequence. 

Friday, 20th. We stayed' the day in Heidelberg, and 
enjoyed a ramble among the ruins of the fine old castle, 
not omitting to take full advantage of the splendid baths 
in the Neckar. During the evening, the police duly waited 
upon us " touching the little affair in Mannheim of the 
previous day," which bad in this short lapse of time 
assumed grave dimensions. The difficulty could be settled 
at once by our paying a deposit of five pounds, or, 
failing this, we were politely informed that these officers 
of the law had authority to detain one of the bicycles 
as a guarantee of the expenses of a proposed trial of the 
case, in the event of our failing to put in an appearance, 
and of the learned magistrate in our possible absence 
giving the case against us. We might have prevented our 
cause going by default, as probably some limb of the 
law" could eventually have been found in the town to 
watch proceedings for us. We spent the remainder of the 
evening in searching for a lawyer, but the one to whom we 
were recommended was away for a holiday, and the 
" stripling " left in charge was far too amused at the story 
to regard it from any business-like point of view ; we left a 
written statement of the case, which possibly never reached 
its destination. The uncertainty of the time when the case 
would come on for hearing, which was variously stated at 
from one to two months, rendered further delay useless. The 
position was a trying one; to give up a bicycle must at once 
end the trip ; to pay the cash deposit demanded we for- 
tunately found would not necessarily take away all chance 
of seeing the Falls, but must prevent any intended further 
explorations. It was an annoying sacrifice to have to make 
for being mere spectators of a carriage accident, but the 
pecuniary one we eventually made, and took three elaborate 
German receipts for the same. Ours seemed to me to be a 



Digitized by 











152 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 




good case for the Bicycle Union,and I wish that we had placed 
it in their hands; but instead of trying to do this, after the 
lapse of a couple of months we settled the case out of court, 
and agreed to a compromise, accepting a paltry balance of 
thirty-three shillings to foreclose proceedings then pending; 
a bad precedent for future bicyclists. 

Saturday, 21st. We left Heidelberg with the discom- 
forting thought that we might again be the witnesses of a 
similar dilemma, and so become the victims of further legal 
and possibly pecuniary complications. The road we now 
followed has been well likened to a cinder path in many 
places. Our route lay through Bruchsal (where there is 
good bathing in the canal), Burlach, and Rastadt, to Baden, 
a distance of 52 miles. ''Hotel Trois Rois." On the following 
morning two hours were deyoted to taking a most elaborate 
and enjoyable Baden bath. In the afternoon we rode on 
over fair roads to Strasbourg by Switzheim, Steinbach, and 
Lichtenau, where we put up at the " Maison Rouge," close 
to the cathedral, an hotel which proved noisy and dear. 
Distance 32 miles. 

Monday, 23rd. The country for many miles south of 
Strasbourg was very flat and uninteresting, and it was only 
when we had passed through Ichenheim, Eensingen, and 
Emendingen, and were nearing Freiburg and the confines of 
the celebrated Black Forest, that we became once more 
favourably impressed with the surroundings. We put up 
at the ** Hotel Pfau " at Freiburg, which was capital. 
The gardens in connection with this hotel were very large, 
and contained, besides good baths and a central fountain, 
many pleasing summer-houses. Distance 45 miles. The 
cathedral should be visited, if only for the sake of ascending 
the spire to obtain the fine view that is to be had of the 
adjacent Black Forest, which can be seen distributing itself 
far into the distance. 

(To be continued.) 
QUILLS. 

" Ariftotle and Pliny ddiver it that the porpentine oaat«th off his quilla 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affinneth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Browne. 

A record is not an easy thing to establish now-a-days, 
but Stephen Smith, in having fciils on three consecutive 
Saturdays, thinks he must be rather near one. 

Talking of records, I hear that the South-East mean to 
score a best attendance at Bletchingley next Saturday. 

From a gastronomic point of view (0 tempora mores), 
this meet is airway a success, and all the S.E. gourmets may 
be expected, 

' 1 ^Vt nrAVA aw a^ai^^Iivk/ aaaavi^i>y ai ^iao in AACi^iimA 

mere were ono or xiwo suirtiiu^ eccGiibncii'ics lu cc/si/umc 
in the S.E. on Saturday. The D. C. sajrs he doesn't mind 
the new club ribbon, but he must draw the line somewhere, 
and a black and white cricketing cap will not be considered 
en regie for the future. Porcupine. 


RACING FIXTURES. 

Rule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meetbg 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Bactng 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
membttrs racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Aay Biember 
wishing to ride at an; - meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

July 7. — Crewe Alexandra A.C. Meeting. 

7. — Belgrave B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
7.— B.U. Five Mile Bicycle and One Mile Tricycle 

Championships at Birmingham. 
7. — Lewisham B.C. at Crystal Palace. 
10. — National Temperance League-— Band of Hope 
Union. Two Miles Open, at Crystal Palace. 
Entries close June 30th. 
14. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Chajipionships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — ^Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 
Palace. 

25. — Eastbourne B.C. Races. 

26. — Crystfil Palace Challenge Cup. 
28. — Races at Bristol Meet. 

Aug. 1. — Leamington and S. W.B.C. Meeting. 

2. — Twenty-five Miles Championship at Taunton. 
2. — Hammersmith B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
4 and 6. — W. Lancashire B.C. Autumn Sports at 
Liverpool 

6 and 7.— North of England Cyclists' Meet Races. 
Sept. 15. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 

N.W. DISTRICT. 

This is to give Notice, that more of the members of the 
above District are expected to ride next Saturday than have 
appeared for the last five or six. 

Shenley! strawberries! cream! and good company. What 
more can an L.B.C. man want to induce him to put in an 
appearance ? Meet at "Jack Straw's Castle," 3.45 ; Tally 
Ho i, Comer, 4.25. A. H. Lown, District Captain. 

EXCHANGE LIST. 
For Sale.— My 5^' -in., ''Humber" racer, new last year ; 
only raced upon in L.B.C. and O.U.Bi.C. Match, 1882. 
TWstrghly done ui), painted, plated, and a new front wheel 
tyre this year. Ball Dedals. Never had a fall. Cost £21 
when new. As good as new, Price £14. Apply to W. F. 
M. Buckley, Christci,urch, Oxford. 

Editobui/ Note.— We regret that at the time of going to 
press no account oi the S.W. run has been received. 

NOTICF TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All c^ntributionB must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Jbastcneap, Ji<.l^., and must bear toe name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper o^lyj^d, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later thflin Tuesday evening. 

Printed *^r. tl|e Proprie rs by Barling Sl Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Priiltij^*t)fiice, 85, Easteheap, London, E.G.— July 5, 1888. 




^ T I 



Digitized by 



KmAon 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 19.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU riffhts resenred.] 



July 12, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The Secretary .. 

Notices 

Saturday Runs.. 
Clab Meets 



153 
154 
154 
155 



All Round the Wheel 

Quillfl 

Racing Fixtures 

Notice to Correspondents 



PAGE 

156 
156 
156 
156 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for " Q-azette " 
is 6.0 p.m. on TuesdayB. 

THE SECRETARY. 
Whatever may be said or thought of the adyisability or 
inadvisability of having a Club bugler, and of definiug so 
clearly in the Club rule book how his duties are to be 
performed, do doubt can be entertained as to the necessity 
of the Club possessing a secretary ; and it is our business 
in this article to discover what are the qualities needful to 
that officer, and then to make any deductions we can from 
materials we have. Our difficulty in this matter is some- 
what increased by the fact that one can seldom even see a 
good secretary, and that therefore diagnosis of the concrete 
subject is impossible. It is of no use whatever to look for 
the model quill-wielder at a race meeting — the competitors 
make such determined attempts to get on to the path 
without their numbers, the telegraph board demands such 
constant attention, and the press are so extremely bibulous 
and " grudge " so painfully " if they be not satisfied," that 
it is quite out of the question for the unassisted eye to 
follow his meteoric movements. Glimpses have, we believe, 
occasionally been caught of aur Secretary at more social 
gatherings, such as a smoking concert or a Club ball, but 
even for this it has been necessary for the programme boy 
to run short of change, the refreshment contractor's lad to 
drop a sixpenny ice-cream, a couple of couples to collide and 
fall, all in a space of somewhere about three square yards. 



From a careful weighing of the question in the abstract, 
however, we have come to the conclusion that before all 
things it is necessary that a secretary should have an in- 
exhaustible supply of vigorous hard-working energy. With- 
out this, if a man's ability be great, he is like an electric 
lamp with both conducting wires snapped ; if his ability be 
small he is like a rush candle without a wick— a mere 
mockery of light. But energy does not complete the man. 
Energy may be dangerous and is often misapplied, and 
esprit de carps, safety-valve, and sign-board, must be 
added. This love of club may, to follow out our simile, 
be again compared in another aspect to the electric 
current, the animating vivifying essence which makes the 
carbon glow and the incandescent energy shine forth 
in all the undertakings of the club. Business aptitude 
and mother-wit are, as we pointed out in a recent article, 
certainly also desirable, though their necessity varies 
with diflFerent club constitutions. With a good practical 
committee to consult, and consulted at every turn, the 
normal amount of them will generally be found sufficient. 
Many secretaries again there are, who, in answering in- 
evitable correspondence, seem quite unable to write even 
passable grammar. We have received from some well- 
known and generally respected clubs, letters containing the 
most crying pieces (for the worse the language invariably 
the louder the tone) of English as she is spoke " that it 
is possible to imagine. Of course in our " careful weighing " 
we discovered the presence, in larger or, smaller quantities, 
of many other constituting elements — ^no competent analyst 



Google 



Digitized by 



154 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



could fail to do so— euch as fact, courtesy, good memory, 
good handwriting, which it is needless to particularise fur- 
ther. There is, however, one, the importance of which has 
been perhaps somewhat overlooked by previous enquirers, 
we allude to outside position in the cycling world. When 
a club has in its ranks two ex-chairmen of the N. C. TJ. 
executive, the public handicapper, two champions, three or 
four ex-champions, as many prospective champions, the 
acknowledged finest road rider and many others who run 
him very close, at least twelve men starting from a 
shorter mark than fifty yards, numbers of tourists, legis- 
lators, and others who are in their various spheres the 
leaders of the world of wheels, this is not necessary ; but 
in the case of a less fortunate body it is of the utmost 
consequence that all the officers, and the helmsman as 
much as any, should have a standing outside the club. 
Having thus roughly sketched the ideal, and indicated 
some of the most frequent and grievous departures from it, 
we would, in conclusion, draw our readers' attention to 
four evident morals. 1st. That we have every reason to 
feel proud of the Secretary we are blessed with. 2nd. That 
some clubs have not. 3rd. That the post being a decidedly 
onerous one, it is the duty of every member to assist the 
holder of it as much as possible. 4th. That although all 
of us are not qualified to manipulate so large a goose-quill 
as the L.B.G. requires, and to undertake the concomitant 
responsibilities, yet that we need not despair of as good 
fish remaining in the L.B.C. sea as have ever been taken 
from it by the L.B.C. Committee. 

N.E. DISTRICT. 
I hope the District will excuse my protracted and most 
unwtUing absence, which has now at last come to an end, 
and will turn out in force on Saturday to meet the N.W. 

Thbo. Godlee, District Captain. 



S.W. DISTRICT.— SPECIAL NOTICE. 
The run next Saturday is to Burnham Beeches to meet 
the West, when I hope that each member of the District 
will make a point of being present, and thus ensure my 
not being left to carry out the run alone. 

R. M. Oruooen, District Captain. 



S.E. NOTICE. 
During the next two months there will be evening runs 
from the Fire Station on Wednesday evenings at 7.30 to 
the Eeston Ponds, where there is good bathing. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 
N.E. District. 
7th July. At last the D.C. has returned and greeted 
his District at the Comer to the number of four. Pro- 
ceeding by Whip's Cross, which was very much tramwayed 
in the direction of Snaresbrook, we were joined by Weeks, 



and so on, by the level crossing and the lower road, which 
was in better condition than usual. A halt was made at 
Abridge, and again when Passingford Bridge was reached, 
just to see if anyone else was coming, and a little 
later up rushed the Captain, explaining that his various 
brothers had, for divers good and sufficient reasons, 
kept him waiting, and then been unable to come. 
At Ongar, as we reached the "King's Head," Baldwin 
appeared; the D.C. was quite expecting him, as they 
had met in Cologne Station the previous afternoon. While 
tea was being prepared. Weeks undertook to pilot the party 
to a bathing place ; and although the place was not large, 
it was voted a great success by all who tried it, and was 
quite big enough for a satisfactory dive. Just after tea 
the Sub-Editor — also returned from his wanderings — turned 
up, making the party up to nine, and about the same time 
the party began to go home ; Jolly and Child getting off 
early because they wanted to go slowly, and it is credibly 
reported racing all the way. The rest more soberly pro- 
ceeded to their destinations. Present : H. Baldwin, Ashley 
Barrett, T. Child, S. G. Hough, Jolly, Lloyd, Lyne, Weeks, 
and Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



N.W. District. 
It has been said that little beginnings have great endings, 
and it is to be hoped that the result of the second part of 
this season's Club runs in our District will prove the truth 
of the old " saw," for that only seven members should turn 
out for a run to Shenley with the inducements held out is 
almost incomprehensibla The programme was carried out 
literally — good company, etc., making it a very enjoyable 
run, the return being accomplished almost by daylight. 
Present : Elgood, H. M. Hewitt, S. R. Hewitt, Langmore, 
Nevill, W. J. Williams, and 

A. H. LowN, District Captain. 

Next Saturday we meet the N.E. at Cheshunt, a ride 
which will commend itself to all who have ridden there 
Northaw and Goff's Oak, so that I hope a large number 
will be at "Jack Straw's Castle," 3.45, and Tally Ho! 
Comer, 4.25. 

W. District. 

I went down to Savernake Cottage, and as at 3.45 no one 
had turned up went, on to Kingston, where I met the S.W. in 
the person of E. J. Sherriff and A. E. Buckler, with whom 
I rode as far as the turning for Ockham. Found the 
" Hautboy and Fiddle " in the hands of beanfeasters, so 
went on to Ripley. Here I found Hawley, with whom I 
had tea. Just as we were finishing Thorn came in ; after 
he had finished his tea, he and I rode on to within 
a mile of Guildford, where we met Marriott, the first 
man of the twenty-four hours L.T.C. Road Ride, coached 
by Jack Keen. We returned with them to Ripley 
(201^ miles.) Here I left Thorn, and went on to see the 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



155 



finish, which took place at the "Bay Tree/' Merton, 
(219 miles), at 11.58. After waiting till 12 to see that no 
one else came up I left for home, via Wimbledon. Present : 
0. Thorn and 0. G. M. Leeds. 

44, Cathcart Road. 

S.B. District. 
Considering the counter-attractions of Henley, the river, 
and the racing path, fifteen and two visitors at Bletchingley 
ought not perhaps to be considered amiss, though it cer- 
tainly fell short of the high expectations of the D.G. That 
worthy, after tramping up and down in firont of the Fire 
Station for some time in a state of mind that is more easily 
imagined than described, was roused from his despondency 
by the timely appearance of Wyndham, whose radiant 
smiles and cheering spirits, backed up with arrival of one 
or two members more, put a more salubrious complexion on 
affairs. Among the last comers was Gerich, "positively 
his first appearance this season.'' There are still not a few 
who might well imitate his example of better late than never. 
Soon after half-past four we were off down the well-known 
road to GK>dstone; two of the younger members led the 
way, but a fast trotting horse coming alongside provoked 
in them that spirit of emulation which "springs eternally in 
the yautl^td breast/' and they disappeared in a cloud of dust 
At the top of GK)dstone Hill there was quite a bevy of men in 
grey ; and with rumours of one or two more ahead we began to 
feel that the District would not disgrace itself at Bletchingley 
after all. At the " White Hart " we found The O'Reilly^ 
who had ridden up from Brighton, having surmounted Hand- 
cross and the Redhill Station hills on the way. With such 
an example, no wonder some of our " younger, bloods," 
as they have been called, are showing such promises. 
A man who has never attended a meet at Bletchingley 
cannot know what a Club tea is, or rather what it should 
be. While we were doing justice to the good fare J. S. 
Whatton arrived, and shortly after H. G. A. Brown and 
A. B. W. Whatton coming in brought the party to its 



full complement of seventeen, including two visitors. Soon 
after eight our gathering began to dissolve, some returning 
home by Redhill or Merstham, while the main body of 
seven, all told, wended its way steadily back through God- 
stone, and reached Croydon before ten. Present : H. G. A. 
Brown, Halliday, S. Herbert, Gerich, McRae, The O'Reilly, 
W. C. Oswald, A. L. Potter, A. B. W. Whatton (W.), J. S. 
Whatton (W.), Whealler, F. H. Williams, Willis, W. 
Wyndham, two visitors (Church and A. C. Potter), and 
R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



Our next run is to Westerham where, it is to be hoped, 
there will be a good attendance. The Croydon Division 
will leave the Fire Station at 4.30 sharp, for Westerham 
direct, where they will meet the Blackheath Division at six 
o'clock. Tea at the " King's Arms " at 6.30. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

S.W. District. 

7th July. Two members, accompanied by Leeds (W.), 
left Kingston at the usual hour, and proceeded by the 
well-known road to Ripley. The W. run being over almost 
the same ground, it seems a pity that a joint meet had not 
been provided, which would doubtlessly have proved more 
attractive than two poorly attended meets. The absence of 
the D.C., who was engaged somewhere shouldering a rifle 
for the good of his country, had such a depressing effect 
that not even the entreaties of Hawley could induce us to 
face the festivities of the tea-table, so, after a brief stoppage, 
we commenced the return journey. Just as we were 
starting, Leeds came in from Ockham, not having found 
any wool, and at the top of Redhill we met Oliver Tl^orn 
on his way down ; after directing him where to find his 
District, we continued our stroll homewards, which termi- 
nated satisfactorily at an early hour. Present: E. J. 
Sherriff and Arthur K Buckler. 

H. H. Sherriff started late, and followed on, but unfor- 
tunately succeeded in missing us. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 




W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


July 14. 

A 


Lea Bridge Bd. 8.30, 
and Sybom's Corner 
8.45, for Chbshuvt. 
MeetN.W. 


8.45/< Jack Straw's 
Castle," for Chxs- 
HUVT. Meet N.E. 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, Mm Hm 
Road, Acton, for 

BURNHAM BlBCHIS. 

Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.0, •for Bdbnham 
BuBCHBS. MeetW. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
WsSTEBHAJf. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 4.0, for 

WBSTBBHAlf. 


July 21.— Gtoeral Meet »t Ewbll. Times and places of atarting to be published in the Gaibtte. 


July 28. 




8.46, "Jaoli.Straw's 
Castle" fo^r low- 

HAH., 


8.45,SaYemakeCot- 
t8ge,MmHiUBd., 
Acton, for BuB- 
FOBD Bbidob. 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for BuBFOBD 
BfiiDas. MeetW. 


4.15« Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbinstead. 


''Hare and Bmet»>' 
4.0, for FABNiira* 

HAM. 



Google 



Digitized by 



156 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
As was expected the Five Miles Bicycle Championship of 
the N.C.U. at Birmingham last Saturday ended in the 
victory of a local man ; in fact Gaskell was the only visitor 
who put in an appearance, though J. S. Whatton had 
entered. Owing partly to a strong wind the times were 
slow, while, after Birmingham fashion, everything was left 
to the last lap. 

• «•««• 

Sutton, of the Edghaston Harriers, and Chambers, of the 
Speedwell B.C., were first and second respectively, the 
latter just beating Oaskell by a foot. Time, 16 min. 26) sec. 
In the second heat Auster, of the Speedwell B.C., and 
Illston, of the Royal Mail, was first and second, Whish and 
RatcliiTe also starting. Time, 16 min. 39{ sec. 

• * * • • • 

The final, after a good race, resulted in favour of Sutton 

by two yards, Anster second, and Illston close up, in 

16 min. 42f sec. 

*•«••• 

The One Mile Tricycle Championship was practically a 
match between Liles and Lowndes, and Liles getting the 
best of it in the last lap won pretty easily in 3 min. 18) sec. 
About 3000 people were present, which is a small gate for 

Birmingham. 

• «•««• 

The Lewisham B.C. had a good entry for their Mile 
Handicap at the Palace last Saturday, when the times were 
again very fast. Douglas Smith, with 80 yards, took third 
prize, beating Thompson, the scratch man» by eight yards 
in his heat, ridden in 2 min. 47 sec, winning his heat in 
the second round in 2 min. 45| sec, and running third in 
the final to Mann, of the Pickwick, with 115 yards, and 
Dray, with 120, in 2 min. 45f sec, all the placed men being 
close together. 

J. S. Whatton (10), L. B. Reynolds (80), and A. B. 
Whatton (50) also ran, but did not get placed. The late 
five mile champion does not seem to have recovered his 

last season's form. 

• ••••* 

The L.T.C. 24 hours Road Ride took place last Saturday. 
Out of 74 entries 67 men turned up at the post. The route 
lay through Brighton, Shoreham, Steyning, Finden, Arun- 
del, Chichester, Fareham (97), Romsey, Salisbury, Win- 
chester, Alton (175), Famham, Guildford, Riplej^ (201i), 
Esher, Kingston, Merton (218J), Mitcham, and Croydon. 
Bronze medals were obtainable at 100 miles, silver at 125, 
silver enamelled at 150, gold at 175, and gold enamelled at 
200. The race practically en^ed at Ripley, where Marriot 
arrived at 9.30, followed at 10.23 by Nixon, who retired 
here. Vesey arrived at 10.29, and Gosset at 11.41. 
Marriot rode on to Merton, completing 21 8 J miles in 
23 hr. 50 min. 

Thb Front Wheel Hub. 



QUILLS. 

There were numerous enquiries for the S.E. Guide at 
Bletchingley. It was currently reported that much against 
his inclination he had gone up the river to oblige some 
friends." 

Rayleigh Hill, which has long defied the attempts of all 
Essex men, has at length been compelled to lower its head 

beneath the triumphant wheel of our Captain. 

• «•••« 

The vagaries of a certain set of cyclists are evidently new 

to the man in charge of the railway crossing at Doncaster. 

He ieemed quite struck by the appearance of two bicyclists 

who had passed en route for London. " They belonged to 

some regiment, I think," he said, with a puzzled air. 
*••••• 

Great things are expected at Cheshunt on Saturday. 

There will be a big array of Club officers, and roses, it 

should be borne in mind, are now in full bloom. 

It was hardly sjrprising that the N.E. tenor, who, by 
the bye, is coming out strongly as a hill-climber, was un- 
able to overtake wbat was designated as the Slow Division 
on the return journey from Ongar. Subsequent enquiries 
elicited the fact that a veterans' match was held from 

Ongar to Abridge. 

• • • • « » 

A. B. W. Whatton rode Reigate Hill returning from the 

Club run last Saturday. 

• ••««« 

H. R. Reynolds, who had never previously ridden a 
tricycle, started in the L.T.C. road race on a borrowed 
machine, and in spite of losing an hour by misdirection at 

Fareham, he completed 175 miles by about 10.30. 

• • « • • • « 

As the N.R D.C. was in Vienna within 48 hours of the 
run the news of his return had not spread, and there was 
something very eccentric in headgear at the N.E. run. 

POECUPINB. 

RACING FIXTURES. 
July 14. — ^B.U. Ten miles Tricycle and One mile Bicycle 

Championships at Crystal Palace. 
14.— L.A.C. at Stamford Bridge. 
19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 

Palace. 

25. — Eastljourne B.C. Races. 

26. — Crystal Palace Challenge Cup. 
28. — ^Races at Bristol Meet. 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
John W. Wilson. Bransford, Edghaston. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contribntiona must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E«C./' and must bear the name of the author, though not 
neoessarily for inserts a. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if imii.ediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
Lter than Tuesday eve idng. 

Printed for the Propn )ton by Daklino & Son, at the Minenra Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.G.— July 12, 1883. 



Digitized by 



An Official Recokd of the Runb, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VL No. 20.] '''''"''^'li&li^''7JIS^f^^' July 19, 1883. 



cont 



PAOS 

The Amateur 167 

Notices 168 

Saturday Runs 158 

ClubMeeta 16» 

The Amateur CliampioiiBhips 160 

South-Eaat 161 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of oopy for " Qazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



THE AMATEUR. 

The fact has for some time been clear to a disgusted 
world that there are amateurs and amateurs. There are 
amateurs in name who are not so in spirit, and amateurs in 
spirit who are not so in name. And it is very painful to 
the happily large number of amateurs both in name and 
spirit to see the other class so conspicuously successful on 
the racing track ; distressing, not by any jealousy of the 
prizes won by such men, but by the discredit their pro- 
minence casts on the sport, and the bad effect their 
example has on younger men. The true amateur is a man 
whose sole motire is the love of the sport, the delight in 
beating worthy rivals, or in not being beaten without doing 
his best to win. He rides in races for honour and victory, 
and not for gain, and the value of the prizes he wins is not 
their selling price in pounds, shillings, and pence, but in 
the hard-won victories over men whom it was an honour to 
beat, of which they are the memorials. 

It is impossible, however, to talk with any racing men of 
the present day without hearing the very reverse of this 
about some of the most prominent riders on the path. We 
are told that A is paid so much a week by certain makers 
of bicycles nominally as a mechanic, but really for adver- 
tising their machines by racing on them ; that B is in the 
pay of a set of bookmakers, and never rides to win unless it 



BNTS. 

PAOI 



ConoemiDg CeUtiloid CoUan 162 

Table of Record Timee 162 

AU Round the Wheel 168 

The " C.T.O. Handbook and Guide " 168 

Qnillfl 164 

Racing Fixturea 164 



suits the book of his employers. We hear this, and tales 
like this, with great minuteness of detail from rider after 
rider. All agree that "something must be done," and (as 
is usual in the case of these unanimous resolves) "someone 
else ought to do something." "Someone else," on enquiry, 
is generally specified as the Union, and surprise is ex- 
pressed that the Union does not make a clean sweep of the 
field, and suspend all doubtful characters, pour encourager 
les autres. 

Now we happen to have heard some of the views of the 
leading men on the Union in this matter, and they are 
shortly to this effect: "Qive us the evidence," say the 
Executive, " and we will act on it. All you bring us is— 
* Everybody knows it ; ' or, ' C was told by D, who heard 
it from E, whose uncle's brother's nephew lives in the same 
street as the man in question ; ' or rather," the Executive 
say, " You don't bring it us ; all of you blame us for not 
formally suspending A and B for grave misconduct, and 
announcing it to the world in all the papers ; but not one of 
you has the courage to come forward yourself and charge 
A and B with definite offences, and give definite evidence 
in support of your charge. ITie hearsay you want us to 
act on would not be admitted against a little boy charged 
with stealing a penny, and you want us on it to make the 
most serious imputations against the character of men of 
some position on the path." 

And we think the reply of the Executive is fair. The 
Union has no inquisitorial power by which it can convict 
offenders without legal evidence ; no rack or dungeon to 



Digitized by VjOO^IC 



158 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



obtain information from people who keep their mouth shut. 
It has no large reserve fund, like the Jockey Club, to enable 
it to proceed without fear of the pecuniary risk of an action 
for libel ; no salaried or unsalaried detectives on its stafiF 
who can track out the cycling criminal and bring him to 
the bar of justice. The purification of the racing path 
must be efl'ected by the men on the racing path ; the Union 
has no heavenly power of helping those who will not help 
themselves. Let racing men come forward with their 
charge and their evidence, and the Union will act with 
promptitude and severity ; but there should be no grum- 
bling if the Union takes no steps when the charge is made 
but the evidence forgotten. 



COMMITTEE. 



At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 
9th instant, the following gentlemen were elected members 
of the Club :— 

Name and AddresB. Proposer. Seconder. 

Ernest Daniel Church, 14, Bel- 
mont Park, Lee, S.E. H. O. BCiddleton. S. P. Smith. 

Percy Clarke, 81,BelBize Avenne, 
N.W E. Scott. P. E. Metcalfe. 

Joseph Gate J, Newton Lodge, 

Barnes, S,W. E. Scott. W. A. Smith. 

The resignation of Mr. A. S. Morris was accepted. 

A letter was read from Mr. Waddell offering us the use 
of the Stamford Bridge Grounds free on Saturday 22nd 
September, as we did not make use of it on 30th June. 
The matter was adjourned until Monday week, when it 
would be more fully discussed. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 



LAWN TENNIS. 
The second round is finished with the following result : — 

Reynolds beat Scrutton, T. E. 

Beck „ Herbert, Arthur 

Francis, R. G. ... „ Potter, J. P. 

Naylor, H. S. ... „ Hewitt, G. S. 

Sharp „ Paull. 

Elgood a bye. 

The third round runs as below, and results must be sent 
in by Monday, July 30th. 

Reynolds plajrs Beck. 

Naylor „ Elgood. 

Francis „ Sharp. 

IMPORTANT.— POSTPONEMENT OP GENERAL 

MEET AT EWELL. 
I have this morning received a telegram from the land- 
lord of the "Glyn Arms," Ewell, saying that he will be 
UDable to provide tea for us on Saturday next. As time 
unfortunately does not allow other arrangements to be made 
I would suggest that the Districts meet at their usual 
meeting places and then decide the direction of their runs. 

Ashley W. Babbett, Captain. 



N.E. District. 
* Uth July. The N.E. District left the Corner rather 
late, and proceeded by way of Whip's Cross and Wood 
Street to Chingford and Cheshunt. At the *' Green Dragon " 
no member of the N.W. was to be seen. After waiting 
until 7.0 the District partook of the necessary refreshment 
and tobacco, and returned by the same route as the out- 
ward journey, the roads being very fair in spite of the rain 
which had fallen. The above strictly truthful account I 
would gladly leave to tell its simple tale, yet perhaps some 
future historian might think it somewhat vague, and I 
therefore add the following details : The Captain, Lloyd, 
and Lyne met at the usual hour at the Corner, and aft^r 
seeing a thunderstorm well started they made tracks for a 
neighbouring butcher's shop, which they occupied for two 
full hours, when, the thunderstorm abating, they separated 
to their respective homes. The D.C., on the other hand, 
came a little late, and finding, just at 4 o'clock, no one at 
the Corner, and a good deal of thunder and lightning 
about, he rushed back to Whip's Cross thoroughly soaked 
through with his ride. He too waited, but a sense of 
stem duty called him. When at length the rain began to 
abate at about 5.50 he made for Cheshunt, reached the 
" Green Dragon " two minutes before 7.0, drank a frugal 
meal, lighted a cigatette, found no one had been seen or 
heard of, and withdrew hurriedly to Walthamstow. Time 
from start to finish 2hr. 25min. in spite of the roads. But 
the reputation of the District was saved. 

Thbo. Goplee, District Captain. 



Another account 
July Uth. The clerk of the weather seems to have a 
spite against the joint meets of this District, and on this 
occasion successfully frustrated the attempts of a few indi- 
viduals to maintain the prestige gained by it at Erith. 
Two members met at Sybom's Corner, and were shortly 
joined by the Captain. After a few minutes conversation 
it was discovered that a terrific storm was bearing down in 
the direction of Walthamstow, and trees not being con- 
sidered the best protection from lightning it was decided to 
make for the first shelter that offered itself. Accordingly 
a start was made, but firat some characters in the cuneiform 
style (worthy of the *' needle " in its most legible days) 
were traced in the mud for the guidance of the D.C. 
Whether he saw them is not known. Shelter was soon 
found under a shop awning in Walthamstow, and a variety 
of weather of a stormy nature transpired. The sufferings, 
mental and physical, of the trio are beyond description. 
After standing up for nearly two hours the rain condescended 
to stop, but as the storm appeared to be still travelling 
northwards, and any attempt to caiTy out the run would 
have necessitated riding into it again, it was unanimously 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



159 



Yoted that the official ran was at an end ; one member 
went homewards, after a reference to a six o'clock dinner ; 
the survivors made tracks for a piece of blue sky in a 
southerly direction, and a rash determination was almost 
come to to ride into Kent ; Forest Gate, however, proved 
the limit, where the hospitality of the contingent was 
kindly extended to the " private member " at their head- 
quarters. It would doubtless be unbecoming on the part 
of the present writer to abuse the kindness of his hosts by 
revealing to the general public the internal economy of the 
F.6.C. ; he will therefore merely hint at the splendour of 
the spacious stables, the fitting shop^ conservatories, and 
grounds. The guest was afterwards provided with an 
escort to the Lea Bridge Road, and sent on his way re- 
joicing. Present : Ashley Barrett (Captain), Lloyd, Iiyne, 
(Thunder, Lightning, and Rain, visitors.) 
P.S. — Must keep up the average somehow. 

8.W. District. 
There is at present a painful monotony about our S.W. 
meets, which it must be hoped Iiad reached its climax on 
Saturday last, for it really seems to be regarded as a 
sufficient reason for not attending when individual members 
are privately informed that their humble servant will attend 
as usual at Kingston. There was however a gleam of satis- 
faction in noting in our latest issue that Buckler had once 
more taken the initiative and carried out our run to Ripley, 
and there is little reason to doubt that he will continue to 
act in a similar capacity for the next two Saturdays, during 
my absence upon a short tour with Barker and Potter, in 
Normandy. The substantial showers last Saturday subsided 
about 4.45 p.m. when the District left Kingston Station, 
and the run for Bumham Beeches commenced. The route 
selected was by Hampton, and unfortunately by Kempton 
Park race course, from whence everyone seemed to be 
returning just as the District was en route for Staines. 
From Staines the run was continued along a bye lane 
by the banks of the Colne to Colnbrook, whence the 
well-known Bath road was followed to Slough, which 
was reached after much labour at 6.45 p.m. Upon 
enquiring of the fair hostess at the C.T.C. house at 



Slough, if she had ever visited the renowned Beeches at 
Bumham, which had so long been the ultimate object of the 
present excursion, and upon eliciting an affirmative reply, it 
was somewhat consoling to the exhausted energies of the 
district to be further informed that there was really little 
at Bumham to satisfy our craving after "nature's beauties." 
Although but partially convinced of the truth of this 
assertion, yet with six more miles before us, an already 
advanced hour, and a cloudy uncertain sky, it was unani- 
mously decided after careful reflection to postpone the visit 
to Stoke Pogis and the Beeches until a more favourable 
opportunity than the present one presented itself. The 
return journey along the Bath Road was accomplished in 
about an hour and a half. Distance from Kingston 37 
miles. The mn next Saturday is to Ewell, where there is 
a General Meet, and where it is extremely desirable that 
the S.W. should display their numerical strength. 

B. M. Qruogen, District Captain. 

S.E. District. 
During the bright intervals between the heavy thunder- 
showers on Saturday, thirteen men managed to find their 
way over to Westerham. Owing to an important engagement, 
it was rather late before the D.C. made his appearance at 
the festive scene, and in his absence, J. G. Oswald had kindly 
undertaken the charge of the Croydon Division. The 
Sevenoaks contingent turned up in force, but the Blackheath 
men were conspicuous only by their absence. After tea at the 
" King's Arms," and th^ usual stroll to view the church and 
the other antiquities of the place, a start homewards was 
made soon after eight, and Croydon was reached via 
Westerham Hill and Hayes Common. Present : Barker, 
Clements, Hartridge, Alf. Herbert, S. Herbert, Morgan, 
J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, L. Fetter, F. B. Smith, 
Whealler, F. H. Williams, one visitor, and 

R. 6. Francis, District Captain. 

I sincerely hope that S.E. members will do their best to 
see their District well represented at the General Meet at 
Ewell next Saturday. The Croydon Division will wait at 
St. Katharine Street for the Blackheath men until 4.30. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 


Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


&E. 

Blackheath Division. 


Jnly 21.— General Meet at Ewell. Times and places of starting to be published in the Gazepte. (See Notice, p. 168.) 


July 28. 


Pafxbchass. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Icksk- 

HAM. 


3.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MUlHiU Rd., 
Acton, for Bub- 
ford Bbtdoe. 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for BuBFOBD 
Bbioob. MeetW. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbikstsad. 


"Hare and BiUet,'' 
4.0, for Fabmiho- 

HAM. 






August 4. 


—No run on account of Bank Holiday. 







Digitized by 



Google 



160 LONDON BICYCLE 



THE AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIPS. 
The coincidence of the London School Board fite and 
the above important fixture produced the largest number 
of spectators we ever remember to have seen at this path, 
though the weather for the most part was very un- 
favourable. The L.B.C. was not riding anything like its 
full strength, but speaking generally the competitors were 
a very representative lot, no rider in any previous cham- 
pionship having come further than from Birmingham, while 
the management was good with the exception that in the 
first heat of the Mile the bell for last lap was deserted by 
the official in charge of it, a mistake which might have led 
to much unpleasantness. The final of the bicycle event 
was spoilt by Sutton's fall, and that of the tricycle by 
Lowndes giving up, as he did last year, directly he was 
challenged. 

One Milk Bicycle Championship. 

Heat 1.— A Thompson, Sutton B.C., 1 ; T. D. Oliver, 
Jesmond AB.C, 2. Thompson led throughout, with Oliver 
on his hind wheel till halfway round the hist lap, when in 
response to the yells from the dressing room the bell sounded 
and the Newcastle man made his effort, coming up outside 
Thompson, who just won by six—some said four — inches. 
Time, 2 min. 46| sec. 

Heat 2.— R. Chambers, Speedwell B.C., 1 ; F. E. S. 
Perry, Crichton B.C., 2. Perry, trying for the time stan- 
dard, led till the last lap, when his opponent passed him 
and won by a yard, with a good deal in hand. Time, 
2 min. 50^ sec. 

Heat 3.— H. W. Gaskell, Ranelagh Harriers, l ; F. R 
Fry, Clifton B.C., 2 ; M. H. Whish, Birchfield B.C., 3. At 
the end of the first lap Fry was leading by ten yards, but 
in the last all were«close up till Gaskell, coming away over 
the water, won easily by six yards ; Fry, contrary to expec- 
tation, beating the Midlander for second place by about the 
same distance. Time, 2 min. 52} sec. 

Heat 4.— G. H. Illston, Royal Mail B.C., 1 ; F. L. Adam, 
L.B.C., 0. Our man, who had discarded his "Club" on 
the score of weakness, and has come into possession of 
Beck's " Humber," snapped its crank at starting and fell, 
leaving Illston to ride over alone, which he succeded in 
doing in 2 min. 53 sec. apparently with great ease. 

Heat 5. — F. Sutton, Edgbaston Harriers, 1 ; P. J. 
McKinlay, Beckenham B.C., 2 ; A. B. W. Whatton, 
C.U.Bi.C. and L.B.C., 3. Until the last lap McKinlay led, 
when the Harrier, who has the. gift of a very sudden spurt, 
shot out and at once gained twenty yards ; after which, 
seeing that he had his men safe, he easied considerably, 
and won by about that distance. Twenty-five yards 
separated McKinlay from the third man, who is not riding 
as well as he was. Time, 2 min. 55f sec. 

This brought the first round to a close, but the executive 
allowed F. L. Adam to ride over by himself to try for a 
time medal, noticing, possibly, that with an advancing 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



thunderstorm a strong, cold wind had sprung up, making 
the feat well-nigh an impossible one. Putting aside our 
sense of the consideration shown to one of our men, we 
cannot help thinking that the precedent thus established 
might be found a very inconvenient one in case of a com- 
petitor in the 50 miles championship claiming under it to 
ride over the distance again. 

SECOND ROUND. 

Heat 1.— H. W. Gaskell, 1 ; A. Thompson, 2. Thompson 
again put it all in from the start, leading till 200 yards 
from home, when the ex-Liverpudlian went by and won by 
two lengths. Time 2 min. 50f sec. 

Heat 2.— F. Sutton, 1 ; G. H. Illston, 2 ; T. D. Oliver, 3. 
There was no hankering after a time medal here, each man 
being content to wait for the finish, which resulted in Sutton 
winning a pretty race by three yards, five dividing second 
and third. Time 3 min. 5f sec. 

Final Heat.— H. W. Gaskell, 1 ; A. Thompson, 2 ; F. 
Sutton fell. Once more Thompson dashed off with the 
lead, Gaskell lying last until passing the dressing room in 
the last lap but one, when Sutton slipped his pedal and fell, 
Gaskell, who was close behind, getting by very cleverly on 
the gravel inside. Thompson continued to lead till passing 
the starting post for the last time, when Gaskell coming 
away at his usual time, landed himself champion by some 
five or six yards. Time 2 min. 55$ sec. Last lap 40| sec. 

Ten Miles Taigtcle Championship. 

Heat 1.— C. D. Vesey, Surrey B.C., and C. E. Liles, 
L.A.C., rode over for places in 41 min. 50^ sec.^ a very 
slow performance to watch. 

Heat 2. — M. J. Lowndes, Coventry, 1 ; G. Smith, 
Merry Rovers T.C., 2 ; R. Chambera, Speedwell B.C., ; 
R. T. Cassall, Berretta C.C., 0. Chambers had reserved 
himself for this event instead of starting in the second 
round of the Bicycle Championship — a decided miscalcula- 
tion, if he desired to do himself justice ; but as Jack Keen 
remarked to the writer, the Birmingham men sometimes 
talk to one another." Four abreast crowded the path at 
starting, very unnecessarily, considering that there were 
only two in the first heat, and Lowndes did wisely in re- 
maining at his station until the others were well on the 
move. Chambers and Cassall retired at different stages, 
and the " giant " won easily by 300 yards. 

Final Heat.— C. E. Liles, 1; G. Smith, 2; M. J. 
Lowndes, ; CD. Vesey, 0. Vesey, who was riding a 
"Rotary," geared much more highly than his strength 
allowed, was quite out of the hunt, and Smith was lapped 
before the fourth mile was completed, after which he stuck 
pluckily to the leaders. Lowndes, as usual, made the pace 
very hot, Liles waiting upon him till crossing the south 
causeway for the last time but one, when he spurted and 
drew level, at which Lowndes was attacked with cramp in 
the leg and suddenly stopped, the L. A.C. man doing the 
last lap by himself in 52| sec, and winning by about 550 



Digitized by 











LONDON BICYCLE 


CLUB GAZETTE. 161 


— 




yards. Smith finished second, Lowndes going on slowly as 
far as the dressing room, outside which his leg was attended 
to, though the majority of the spectators appeared to con- 
sider that the symptoms were rather those of cramp in the 
heart. It is needless to add that Liles' victory was a very 
popular one. J. S. W. 

SOUTH-EAST. . 
''Home keeping youth have ever homely wits." So 
wrote the man who never, so far as we know, left Warwick- 
shire except for the metropolis. But, following his precept 
rather than his example, I had been spending part of the 
"long" wandering from place to place, visiting friends, 
se'eing the country, and picking up one or two prizes at 
country meetings, and now, joining my brother (A. B.) at 
Eastbourne, we decided on returning to town by way of the 
Kent coast. 

We took the usual road over the Pevensey levels to the 
old ruin, and found the. surface better than usual, though 
the absence of any sort of shelter from the violent east 
wind suggested the peculiar aptitude of the place for the 
erection of an anemometer. We got into the Lewes and 
Battle high road at Linfield, which is situated at the top 
of a long hill, and turned to the right to Battle, leaving 
Normanhurst (Sir T. Brassey's place) above us on the left. 
It was the wrong day for the abbey, but the fine old church 
was open and was undergoing, at the hands of the rector's 
family, a magnificent preparation for the harvest festival 
At the end of the town the signpost will be a sufficient 
direction to Selescombe, at which place, instead of following 
our own inclinations — ^which would have led us by a lane 
to Broad Oak Gross — we took advice and the straight road 
up the hill to Crispe's Corner, which is certainly the right 
thing to do. From Battle to this village, where four ways 
converge upon a first-rate signpost, the road is very hilly, 
rather rough, and a little hard to find ; but all the rest of 
the way to Rye is much more level, fairly smooth, and 
unmistakable main road. It runs along the tops of the 
hills, with very fine views throughout, after the manner of 
an elongated Hog's-back, and finishes with a spectacle 
which, as far as I know, is unique — ^the two ancient towns 
of Winchelsea and Rye standing each on its rock in the 
middle of the marsh. 

At Rye we stopped at an inn which the townspeople know 
as the " Sinkey Ports " Hotel (B.T.C.), which is scarcely up 
to the mark ; but the Ypres Tower, and the Old Gates, as 
well as the Parish Church, are worth going a long way to see. 
In the visitors book at the church we noticed the signatures 
of the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, who, on the occasion 
of the recent civic visit, were pleased to contribute five 
pounds to the restoration fund, a sum' which looked vast 
beside the shilling and halfcrown contributions of the more 
ordinary mortal. Leaving Rye by the bridge over the 
Rother, the traveller at once re-enters the marsh, a most 


primitive and interesting district, so much out of the way, 
that the inhabitants will tell you (See the Guide book ; we 
did not ask because we did not quite know how to put the 
question) that the world consists of Europe, Asia, Africa, 
and America, and Romney marsh. 

Brockland is a curious village, and the church spire is a 
splendid conception, detached from the rest of the building 
and constructed from the ground of tarred wood. Its 
architectural style is its own, but a model might perhaps be 
formed by breaking off the stems of three wine glasses about 
an inch from the bowl, and placing them inverted upon one 
another. From us it provoked laughter, but that a constant 
contemplation of it is apt to engender a more dangerous 
state of mind, may be inferred from a touching appeal 
signed by the churchwardens, which is painted up near the 
door, begging the parishioners to abstain from throwing 
stones at the church steeple ! As we saw no one indulging in 
this pastime, and as the proclamation is dated 1832, we 
concluded that it was only a marsh reflection of the excited 
state of public feeling at the time. However the notice 
remains. 

A mile or two beyond Blockland we crossed the railway, 
which runs right out to the end of Dungeness, whose light- 
house may be seen away to the right, glimmering over some 
six miles of marsh. Dungeness Station is a terminus, and 
I should say an unprofitable one, for the only places 
marked on the map within three miles are the said 
lighthouse, " Number One Battery," Dunge Marsh Court," 
and " Abnor Pit." The nature of the last settlement we 
did not discover. 

We passed the night at the comfortable B.T.C. house at 
New Romney, and on Thursday morning, after having 
made some progress against a violent head wind, we made 
the pleasing discovery that A. B. was no longer burdened 
by the weight of his Take-about knapsack (by no means an 
unusual incident of our touring), and he consequently en- 
joyed a fast run down the wind to recover it from the hold 
of the " Ship." Part of the way to Hythe the road runs 
under Dymchurch Wall, which is maintained at a cost of 
£5,000 a year, to prevent the encroachments of the sea, a 
somewhat difficult matter, if we may judge from the earnest 
discussion by some eight or ten greyheaded farmers, which 
we heard at the inn at New Romney, touching the election 
of a bailiff of the marsh, presumably an official whose 
duties are connected with the care of the great sea wall. 

After visiting Saltwood Castle, and the (supposed) Saxon 
bones in the crjrpt of the parish church at Hythe, there is 
nothing to detain the tourist, except the immense hill out 
of Folkestone, until Dover is reached, where we saw the 
twin ship Ccdais-Douvres, and had a miserable dinner. 
Dover to Deal is Folkestone to Dover encored, and as we 
were struggling with an even more boisterous wind than 
we encountered on the same road in '80, we had but a bad 
time of it. The day's journey ended in darkness at Sand- 






Digitized by VjOOQ iC 





162 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



wich, for the wind was sucli as to preclude the possibility of 
lighting or keeping alight any known lamp. The B.T.G. 
Hotel at Sandwich is exceedingly comfortable, and in every 
way to be strongly recommended. 

Friday. Two miles out of Sandwich is the ferry house 
for Richborough Castle, and one is punted across. It is 
"four-square/' only the outer walls remaining, which at 
the present time enclose a ploughed field ; but these are in 
a wonderful state of preservation considering their Koman 
origin, and a further attraction is found in an underground 
passage following the circuit (if one may use that expression 
of what is rectangular) of the walls. We penetrated about 
100 yards, but having burned up all our matches and the 
box, we were forced to retire. Next time we shall take in 
a head lamp. 

The next stage was Bamsgate, but Bamsgate is nothing 
without its Saturday to Monday mob, and the same remark 
applies to Margate, four miles on. The former, however, 
can boast of a first rate coffee tavern. 
[Note. — There is no doubt that limejuice is the thing to 

drink.] 

From Margate there is a capital run to Canterbury, 
whence the Watling Street is known to everyone, and as we 
cannot speak of it in terms of affection it is better left un- 
described. Sufiice it to say that we got home that night 
after a very enjoyable three days ; though it rained at 
intervals throughout, and the wind was very strong as far 
as Margate, after which, when it might have helped us, it 
died away altogether. J. S. Whatton. 



CONCERNING CELLULOID COLLARS. 
These are, undoubtedly, convenient articles, but on first 
acquaintance they are also apt to be disappointing. Perhaps 
a few hints on the subject may save a fellow-member some 
amount of vexation of spirit. I remember thinking what 
a treasure I had got when I brought home my first " ever- 
clean," and how my opinion altered when, the first time I 
put it on, one of the buttonholes split right to the edge. 
Since then I have had some experience, and these are the 
results : The first thing I do on buying a collar, is to en- 
large the centre of the buttonhole slightly with a shoe 
maker's punch— such as they use for making eyelet holes in 
boots. Next put your collar into the water-jug for a day 
or two, and if, afterwards, you have not used it for some 
time, it is better to repeat this experiment— just put it in 
soak overnight, and it will be much more comfortable to 
wear. Occasional scrubbing with soap and water and a 
nailbrush will keep them presentable for a long time, but 
they do become discoloured at last. There is some cleaning 
stuff to be got at the shops, but I have not tried it ; it is 
sold in bottles. I find a little sulphuric ether, used with 
the finger or cotton wool answers capitally, but it must not 
be used near a candle, as it is very inflammable, or, rather. 



explosive. By attention to the points I have mentioned 
these collars will be found to last much longer, and will be 
found not only convenient, but economical as well 

La-di-da. 



TABLE OF RECORD TIMES. 



Compiled by G. P. Coleman, L.B.C., Official Timekeeper 
to the Bicycle Union. 



1882. 


1881. 




i 
M 


«> 
a 

1 


i 
1 


6 
1 


1 
1 


1 










H 






- 


H. M. 8. 






H. M. 8. 






i 


41 


GortM. 


Surbiton. 


36^ 


UiUier. 


liCioester. 


\ 


1 20 


do. 


do. 


1 23 


[yleaver. 


Stamf. ]5rdg. 


i 


2 1{ 


do. 


do. 


n o A 
2 V 


iL.-Jfai. 


Uambnage. 


1 


2 41f 


do. 


do. 


2 46f 


do. 


do. 


2 


5 86| 


K.-Fal. 


Cambridge. 


5 36| 


A^ 
do. 


do. 


3 


8 4l|- 
11 46i 


Adam. 


Crystal Jral. 


8 54} 


uortis. 


Leicester. 


4 


Cortis. 


Surbiton. 


11 5li 


do. 


do. 


5 


14 39f 


do. 


Stoke-on-T. 


14 39f 


do. 


Stoke-bn-T. 


6 


17 87 


do. 


Sorbiton. 


17 68| 


do. 


Stirbiton. 


7 


20 82 


do. 


do. 


22 52 


do. 


do. 


8 


28 dl| 


do. 


do. 


23 57 


do. 


do. 


9 


26 3l| 


do. 


do. 


26 69} 


- do. 


do. 


10 


29 oOf 


ao. 


do. 


29 54^ 


do. 


do. 


11 


82 30 


do. 


do. 


33 4} 


do. 


do. 


12 


35 30^ 


do. 


do. 


36 6| 


do. 


A^ 

do. 


18 


88 35t 


do. 


do. 


39 5| 


A^ 

do. 


A^ 

do. 


14 


41 86 


do. 


do. 


42 9| 


do. 


da 


15 


44 87t 


do. 


do. 


45 8 


do. 


do. 


16 


47 37| 


do. 


do. 


48 8 


A^ 

do. 


do. 


17 


60 32f 


do. 


* do. 


51 O} 


do. 


do. 


18 


63 27f 


ao. 


A^ 
do. 


68 56} 


A^ 

do. 


A^ 

do. 


19 


56 22| 


do. 


do. 


57 36 


do. 


do. 


20 


59 20| 


do. 


do. 


1 38} 


A^ 

do. 


do. 


21 


1 8 46| 


do. 


do. 


1 3 i6l 


do. 


An 

do. 


22 


1 6 6li 


do. 


do. 


1 6 51} 


A^ 

do. 


do. 


23 


1 10 9} 


do. 


do. 


1 10 9} 


do. 


do. 


24 


1 18 26f 


do. 


do. 


1 18 26} 


do. 


do. 


25 


1 16 4H 


do. 


do. 


1 16 41} 


do. 


da 


26 


1 22 551 


Jephson 


Crystal Pal. 


1 25 34 


HiUier. 


da 


27 


1 26 12| 


Adam. 


do. 


1 29 8} 


do. 


da 


28' 


1 29 314 


Veaey. 


do. 


1 82 21 


Griffith. 


da 


29 


1 88 2} 


Jephson 


do. 


1 85 48 


do. 


do. 


30 


1 36 21 


K.-Fia. 


do. 


1 89 11 


do. 


do. 


31 


1 39 43{ 


Day. 


do. 


1 42 41} 


Hillier. 


da 


32 


1 48 13i 


Vesey. 


do. 


1 46 6} 


do. 


do. 


33 


1 46 86} 


do. 


do. 


1 49 34} 


do. 


da 


34 


1 49 52} 


do. 


do. 


1 63 5 


do. 


da 


35 


1 53 31| 


K.-Fal 


do. 


1 66 47 


da 


da 


36 


1 56 38{ 


Vesey. 


do. 


2 16} 


do. 


da 


87 


2 8| 


Grute. 


do. 


2 3 47} 


do. 


da 


38 


2 8 28| 


Je^hsoxi 


do. 


2 7 35 


do. 


da 


89 


2 6 49^ 
2 10 6$ 




do. 


2 11 21 


do. 


da 


40 


do! 


do. 


2 15 6} 


do. 


da 


41 


2 18 31{ 


do. 


do. 


2 18 52} 


do. 


da 


42 


2 16 51f 


do. 


do. 


2 22 261 


do. 


da 


43 


2 20 ISi 


Adam. 


do. 


2 26 5 


do. 


do. 


4i 


2 28 42) 


Vesey. 


do. 


2 29 46} 


do. 


da 


45 


2 27 5| 


Jephson 


do. 


2 S3 18 


Crute. 


da 


46 


2 30 33} 


K.-Fal 


do. 


2 36 47} 


HiUier. 


da 


47 


• 2 84 4i 


Jephson 


do. 


2 40 28} 


do. 


da 


48 


2 37 m 


do. 


do. 


2 44 8 


do. 


da 


49 


2 41 8{ 


do. 


do. 


2 47 42} 


do. 


do. 


60 


2 43 58f 


K-Fal 


do. 


2 60 60} 


do. 


da 



All the above are done with a stationary start. Fastest 
i of a mile, with a flying start, 36f, by J. S. Whatton, 
Cambridge University and London B.C. Longest distance 
ridden in an hour, 20 miles 325 yards, by H. L. Cortis, 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Wanderers B.C., at Surbiton, 2nd August, 1882. Fastest 

10 miles on grass, 34-31^, by H. L. Cortis, Wanderers B.C., 

Kennington Oval, September 6th, 1879. 

[By an editorial (or ex-editorial) blunder, the above was 
not printed at the beginning of the year, as it should 
have been. As it is desirable to make our pages a record 
of the progress of the sport, we reproduce it now. 
Already this year the i mile record has been lowered to 
40^ and the ^ mile to 1-1 9|, both records standing to 
the credit of A. H. Thompson, of the Sutton B.C.] 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
Another record has gone. Mr. James Lennox, of Dumfries, 
has ridden from John o' Oroats to Land's End in 10 days, 
4 hours, 30 minutes, including a Sunday, on which he did 
no riding. He rode by Inverness, Perth, Edinboro', Biggar, 
Carlisle, Penrith; Kendal, Lancaster, Warrington, Welling- 
ton, Worcester, Gloucester, Bristol, Taunton, and Exeter. 
A headwind blew the whole time, and it rained on every 
day but two. Moreover, for two days Mr. Lennox rode on a 
machine with only one handle-bar. Clearly, our President 
or H. R. will have to set to and do the distance (about 
950 miles) in the week. 

• «•*•• 

Both championships run on Saturday remain in London, 
though Sutton might very likely have won the mile, but 
for his fall, as he showed a splendid tu^i of speed in his 
heats. 

«••««• 

Gaskell's last lap in the final of the Mile was a record for 
the ground, 40f seconds for 504 yards ; this represents 35| 
seconds (about) for the quarter mile, which is well inside 
J. S. Whatton'^ record of 36f . Possibly Sutton might not 
have been equal to this, though the last lap of the Five 
Miles at Aston, which is about the same length, 501 yards, 
I think, took under 41 seconds. 

• ••••• 

F. L. Adam had very hard luck in his start; many 
starters would have pulled both the men back, but Keen 
thought he had no power to act. 

• • • • • • 

The best race of the day was undoubtedly between 
Thompson and Oliver in the first heat ; the fastest time 
of the day, 2 min 46f sec, and the closest finish. 

• « • • ♦ • 

Lowndes' defeat in the Ten Miles was a very bad case of 
want of pluck ; the moment Liles passed him he shut up, 
as he has often done before. It is very curious that a man 
who can make pace so fast and well should be such an utter 
coward when collared. 

• •••«« 

Buckley was on the ground with his arm out of a sling. 



Truly the L.B.C. is unfortunate in the show it makes for 
the championships. 

* ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ « 

All sorts of rumours were flying about Sutton. I have 
always, however, distrusted precise statements since Hillier 
was told by a Midland cyclist who did not know him, that 
" he knew as a fact that that chap Hillier was in the pay 
of a firm of bookmakers at the Alexandra Palace." 

I am more than ever confirmed in my opinion that a 
tricycle on the racing path is a fish out of water after 
Saturday's exhibition. We shall be having " growler " 
and omnibus championships next. 

*♦♦«*• 

The Second Summer Meeting of the L.A.C., postponed 
from Saturday last, was held on Tuesday evening. The 
Four Miles Bicycle Handicap (Open) was won by H. F. 
Wilson of the Surrey, Oliver Thorn riding second. Time, 
12 min. 23f sec. Wyndham also ran in the final, but gave 
up after going two miles. There was an exciting finish in 
the second heat, Thorn coming up with a splendid spurt at 
the finish and just making a dead heat of it with Wilson. 

Thb Front Whbbl Hub. 



The "C.T.C. Handbook and Guidb : " 7th Edition, June, 
1883. Compiled and Published by E. R. Shipton* 
Secretary, 139, 140, Fleet Street, E.C. 



The long-looked-for revised edition of the C.T.C. Hand- 
book made ita appearance at the beginning of this month. 
It is neatly got up in the style of its immediate predecessors, 
and bears evident marks of careful editing. Although it 
contains some fifty pages more than last year's edition, it is 
actually less bulky ; the diminution in size being achieved 
by the use of thinner paper. In place of the roughly out- 
lined sketch map of Great Britain which appeared in last 
year s issue, we have now a carefully executed map of the 
United Kingdom with the boundaries and the chief consular 
districts clearly indicated. Besides this, the chief innova- 
tion is a French Tariff (p. 23) which, though fair, does not 
appear to us to offer any special advantages to a member of 
of the club. In Paris and some of the larger towns he 
would certainly save a franc for his bed and twenty-five 
centimes for attendance, but in country places he will save 
nothing by showing his badge or ticket. 

The chief difficulty which the C.T.C. executive has to face 
with reference to this annual publication is its constant, and 
almost inevitable, tendency to increase in size, and, conse- 
quently, to diminish in usefulness. For if the book is to be use- 
ful it must be small and portable, and we feel bound to confess 
that even last year we compromised matters by tearing out 
the leaves we thought we should want to refer to in the course 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



of our tour, and leaving the rest behind. The next important 
point is simplicity of arrangement. Now it appears to us 
that something would be gained in both these respects by 
doing away with the present separate lists of the towns in 
each chief consular district and printing them all together 
in one alphabetical list, and inserting the number or initials 
of the chief consular district after the name of the town. 
By this means a good deal of space would be saved, the 
present index of towns, which occupies twelve pages, would 
be rendered unnecessary, and the reader would be saved the 
trouble of a double reference. At present, in order to 
ascertain particulars respecting a place, one has to look it 
out in the index, and then refer back to the list of towns in 
the chief consular district. A separate list of chief consuls, 
with the boundaries of their districts, is given at pp. 32, 33, 
and this should be retained. Foreign places should also be 
combined into one list instead of six as at present, and 
perhaps at some future time it may be advisable to publish 
this portion as a separate appendix. 

Of the late appearance of the book we will say nothing, 
since this was clearly due to exceptional causes, and ought 
never to occur again. We have it at last, and are glad to 
find it in every respect superior to any of its predecessors. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Fliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off hit qidlls 
when he wonld attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of foDy to beUeve it."— Sir T. BtoWFi. 

The group taken after the Invitation Race at Cambridge 
containing good likenesses of Palmer, Whish, Jephsoui 
F. L. Adam, Butler, Pollock, Lathan), Merry, Reynolds, 
Hampton Roberts, Garr, and the brothers Whatton, can 
be obtained of G. L. Schwind, Esq., Derby. Price one 
sliilling. 

• • • • • • 

D. R. Smith proposes to take to tricycle racing next 
season. It is not stated whether he thinks it safer, or more 
exciting, or more profitable. 

• ••••« 

A comic paper suggests that a recent article, Over the 
Pyrenees on a bicycle," should read " Over a bicycle on a 
pair-of-knees." 

McGullum Hill has effected a radical reform in himself. 
Members meeting the top half of a face that seems very 
well known to them are requested not to pass it because 
they have never seen the lower half before. 

«••••• 

The North-West is to be congratulated on its new D.G. 
The way in which in his last week's report he takes credit 
for a meet of seven, without the smallest hint that three 
out of the seven were stray sheep from an adjoining district. 



shows that he thoroughly understands his duties, and 
promises well for the future records of the district 

• ••••• 

It is doubtful whether the N.R representatives who went 
to the butcher's shop decided to alter the destination of the 
run within the meaning of the rule. 

«•••«• 

The N.E. D.G. found the whole dignity of being a meet 
of two districts somewhat oppressive. 

• ••••• 

The touring season has been initiated by a Normandy 
four who started last Tuesday via Newhaven and Dieppe. 

• »*••• 
Their programme is said to be varied as well as extensive ; 

and the Editor is accordingly expectant 

POBGUFINB. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bnle 40 enacts that no member represent the Glnb tX any race meeting 
. without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any memb**r 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this Ijst is requestc*.' 
to oommunicate with the Captain. 

19. — Crichton Three miles Invitation Race at 

Crystal Palace. 
21. — Fifty miles Bicycle Championship at Crystal 

Palace. 

26.— Eastbourne B.C. Races. 
26.— Crystal Palace Challenge Cup. 
28.— Races at Bristol Meet. 
Aug. 1. — Leamington and S.W.B.C. Meeting. 

2. — Twentf-five Miles Championship at Taunton. 
2.— Hammersmith B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
4 and 6. — ^W. Lancashire B.C. Autumn Sports at 
Liverpool. 

6 and 7.— North of England Cyclists' Meet Races. 
Sept. 15. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



Editomal Note. — We regret that at the time of going to 
press no accounts of the W. and N.W. runs have been 
received. 



NOalCB TO CX)RRESPONDENTS. 

All contributions must be addressed to <* The Editor, L.6.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C.,** and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for- insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if im mediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evem'ng. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Darling & SoK, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, £.0 July 19, 1883. 



Google 



Digitized by 






An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 21.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



July 26, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Autamn Meeting 166 

Notices 165 

Baoe Meeting at Stamford Bridge 166 

Saturday Runs 166 

Club Meets 166 

The Fifty Miles Championship 167 



PAGE 

Correspondence 167 

All Round the Wheel 168 

National Cyclists* Union 168 

Quills 168 

Racing Fixtures 168 

Notice to Correspondents 168 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Q-azette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on TuesdayB. 



AUTUMN MEETING. 
The Committee have, as stated In another column, 
decided upon an entirely novel experiment, and one 
which only special circumstances would render possible. 
As members are aware the Stamford Bridge Ground was 
engaged for a Saturday in June, and the liability of the 
Club was adopted by a number of guarantees in order to 
render it possible to hold the Annual Bace Meeting 
at the Crystal Palace. As we did not use the ground, 
however, the L. A.C. have very kindly placed the Stamford 
Bridge Ground at our disposal for the 22nd September. 
This was an offer the Committee did not like to throw 
away, but the colossal effort of an ordinary race meeting, 
got up in the dead season when everyone was away, 
showed such a reasonable prospect of a loss after all, that 
they rejected that idea as impossible. They have therefore 
decided on a purely family gathering — a race meeting with- 
out an open event, without any advertising, and practically 
without any printing. The only attempt at an open event being 
a flat race for boys under sixteen introduced by members ; 
the only advertisement being a notice in our columns ; the only 
fruit being the performances. Our members have occasion- 
ally complained that we do too much for outsiders and not 
enough for them, and now they have a good chance. The 
pri7.e3 will not of course be expensive, as for our own 



members that is wholly unnecessary to make a good race, 
whatever may be the case with outsiders. We hope 
that our readers will encourage this novel idea, and that 
a pleasant afternoon will be satisfactorily carried out. 
Entrance to the ground will be only one shilling ; members 
themselves being admitted free on showing their badge. 
The Committee have avoided the appeal to members which 
must have resulted in any attempt at an open meeting, but 
a certain amount of general co-operation will be needed to 
float the venture, which we trust the Club will not be slow 
to give. 

COMMITTEE. 

At a meeting of the Committee held at the " City Arms " 
on Monday, 23rd inst., it was resolved that " the offer of 
the L.A.C. for the free use of Stamford Bridge Grounds on 
22nd September be accepted with thanks; that a race 
meeting be held on that day— not necessarily confined to 
bicycle races — but that all bicycle races be confined to 
members, and all other competitions be confined to members 
and their friends." 

The old Race Committee was requested to make the 
necessary arrangements. E. S. Priob, Hon. Sec. 

EAST GRINSTEAD. 
Next Saturday I think we may count on having more 
settled weather, and a good attendance ought t6 be the result. 
The Croydon Division will leave the Fire Station at 4.15. 
The Blackheath men will run to Pamingham, according to 
the Meet Card. ,R. G. Prancis, District Captain. 



Digitized by 



Google 



166 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRmOR 
In accordance mth the decision of the Committee there 

will be a race meeting at the above grounds on Saturday, 

22nd September, at 3.30 p.m. The events will be : — 
One Mile Club Handicap. Three prizes : gold, silver, 

and bronze medals. 
Twelve Miles District Scratch. Three prizes: bronze 

medals. 

Half-mile Club Scratch. Two prizes : gold and silver 
medals. 

220 yards Flat Race for boys under 16 years of age, 
introduced by members. Three prizes. 

Entry fee for each of the first three events 2s. 6d, and 
for the Flat Race, Is. The Twelve Miles District Race 
must be ridden on bond fide roadsters ; only those members 
allowed to compete who have attended at least eight meets 
throughout the season. Each District to have three starters. 
Entries close on 17th September. A member of the Com- 
mittee has kindly offered the first prize for the flat race. 

Members will be admitted free on production of Club 
Badge. No tickets will be issued ; the admission to the 
outside world will be by payment of Is. at the gates. 

It will be seen from the foregoing that an entirely new 
departure is being undertaken. The afternoon is intended 
to be a purely Club affair, and every member taking part 
in the races or turning up on the ground will make it more 
so. It will serve all the purposes of a General Meet, without 
the bother of having to get to the destination by riding all 
round London, and will have one great attraction which 
the said General Meet is void of, viz., the presence of fellow- 
members' sisters, cousins, and annts. 

E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 



N.E. DisTEicr. 
July 21. The weather last Saturday in this District was 
characterized by the usual thunderstorm, which came 
around just as the men ought to have been meeting at 
Sybom's Corner. The D.C. was late, but Lyne, also slightly 
so, found him waiting at Whip's Cross, and, as the thunder 
was then calm, the two departed for Epping, where the 
District had been summoned by post card, hoping to find a 
few others, but without avail. The ride out was pleasant, 
in spite of one or two showers, and after a somewhat simple 
tea a return journey was effected in daylight. Present : 
G. Y. Lyne and Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



PAPERCHASE. 
I much regret that the illness of a relative will prevent 
my asking the District to take tea at Whip's Cross on 
Saturday next. Under these circumstances I have arranged 
for the meet to take place at 4.45 at Snaresbrook Station, 



G.KR., at which hour two hares will, I hope, be able to 
start Tea will be at the " White Hart," Abridge, at the 
close of the run. 

Thbo. Godlee, District Captain. 



W. District. 

2l8t July. After an absence of somewhat over three 
weeks I have at last returned to my duties. Certainly I 
expected to find someone at the starting place somewhere 
about 4 o'clock, notwithstanding the postponement of the 
General Meet at Ewell. But no doubt the rain deterred 
anyone from putting in an appearance, at least no one had 
done so as late as 4.30, when I decided to take a short turn 
round by myself for an hour. I went to Eew, and on to 
Brentford, Isleworth, and through the lanes to Ealing, at 
which point, failing to discover any enjojrment, I turned 
homewards, wet and uncomfortable. 

I hope all who can will try to attend the run on Saturday 
next, when I hope to be present myself. For the remainder 
of the season I shall endeavour to be at the starting point 
each Saturday at 3.45, when I hope to be supported by as 
many as can conveniently manage to be present. 

H. C. PiaoTT, District Captain. 



S.E. District. 
Wednesday, 18th July. The first Evening Run was 
favoured with fine weather, and attended by four members, 
who met at 7.30 at the Fire Station. The road taken was 
that by Shirley and West Wickham. The weather and 
surface were perfect, the only drawback being that the 
bathing-pond at Eeston was found to be dry. Owing to 
some unfortunate person having been drowned it had been 
drained to recover his body. The rustics were busy captur- 
ing, and when captured fighting over the fish — ^principally 
carp and eels. One carp that had been caught was said to 
have been no less than two feet round the belly. Present : 
Gericb, S. Herbert, W. C. Oswald, Wigan, and his fox terrier 
" Jii^o." In future the starting time from the Fire Station 
for the Wednesday evening runs will be 7 o'clock. 



Saturday, 21st July. More rain " was the reflection of 
the D.C. as he trudged over to Croydon and was soused in 
one of those showers which we ought to be getting accus- 
tomed to by this time. Only one other member, S. Herbert, 
made his appearance at the start. However, the sun came 
out to cheer our course, and with the wind did its best to dry 
us. On Hayes Common we fell in with Day, and on arriving 
at Down we found quite a cluster of men round the door of 
the " George Inn." The Blackheath Division were in great 
force, the return of their chief, Stephen Smith, from his duties 
connected with the Racing path having evidently given a fresh 
stimulus to their energy. Morgan and Smith turned up from 
Sevenoaks, and F. H. Williacns gave proof of his usual 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



167 



deyotion to his district, by riding over hte from BeddingtoD. 
The new landlord — new landlords seem to be a speciality 
of the " George Inn " — showed himself anxious to make us 
comfortable, and when he has settled down in his new house 
will, no doubt, be as successful in that line as his predeces- 
sors. It is to be feared that most of the men must have 
felt the effects of the shower which came on soon after we 
dispersed for home. Present : Church, Day, Halliday, 
Alfred Herbert, Arthur Herbert, S. Herbert, Morgan, P. B. 
Smith, S. P. Smith, Whealler, F. H. Williams, two visitors, 
and 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



N.W. DiOTEIOT. 

It may be that our District, in consequence of the keen 
disappointment experienced as regards the General Meet, 
vainly tried to console themselves with lawn tennis or the 
river ; but yet the afternoon was a fine illustration of shifting 
scenery iu the ethereal world, and those who turned out 
enjoyed their run to Cheshunt very much, putting up at the 
" Green Dragon " and returning home soberly and in order. 
Next Saturday the run is to Ickenham, famous for scenery 
and roses. Tea at the Coach and Horses." Jack Straw's 
Castle," 3.45. GENERAL ORDER— To turn out in 
numbers. A. H. Lown, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


8.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S E 

Blackheath btTision. 


July 28. 


Paferohasb. 
Meet at Soaresbrook 
Station at 4.45. Tea 
at "White Hart," 
Abridge. 


8.46, " Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Ickbn- 

HAM. 


3. 45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MiUHfll Rd., 
Acton, for BuB- 
FOBD Bbidob. 
Meet S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for BuBFOBD 
Bridge. MeetW. 

« 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbinstbad. 


" Hare and BiUet," 
4.0, for Fabnino- 

HAH. 



August 4. — ^No mn on account of Bank Holiday. 



THE FIFTY MILES CHAMPIONSHIP. 

The Crystal Palace Company probably did a good stroke 
of business in again getting this event run at their grounds, 
for in spite of the very doubtful morning the public were 
present, especially toward the end of the race, in as large 
numbers as they were last year on a day good enough for 
record beating. H. F. Wilson, of the Surrey, a club that 
has turned out several first-rate long distance men, after 
his splendid performance on Thursday, and in the absence 
of our President, and of this year's winner at five miles, 
was made a strong favourite ; and he succeeded in winning, 
though, with a little more judgment on the part of Fry, it 
might have been otherwise. Result: H. F. Wilson, 
Surrey B.C., 1 ; F. R. Fry, Clifton B.C., 2 ; H. R. Rey- 
nolds, O.U.Bi.C. and L.B.C., 3 ; C. D. Vesey, Surrey B.C., 4, 

There were three " foreigners " riding, FVy, Popplewell of 
Ipswich, well known at the Oval, and King, of Salisbury, 
who has appeared at Stamford Bridge and elsewhere, and 
who on this occasion went oflF with the lead, a position 
which he shared with Tacagni, McKinlay, Popplewell, and 
W. W. Scott, late of the Imperial, for the greater part of 
the first half of the journey. In the middle of the 26th 
mile Wilson for the first time took the lead, and doing 
the 27th in 2 min. 53 sec, he got right away and caught 
the last of the opponents in the 30th, after which he 
accompanied the second man until some two miles from 
tbe finish. In the mean time. Fry and Reynolds, who 
had parted company with each other, closed up again, and 
these three rode together with a lap between each of them till 
the 48th mile when Fry, at length following the instructions 



of his trainer who, seeing that he was perfectly fresh, had been 
endeavouring for some time to get him to quicken, made 
his effort, at once left Wilson, and before the finish had 
regained rather more than half the lost lap. Reynolds, 
who seemed rather done, but who lasted wonderfully con- 
sidering that he had had no path training, also got about 
sixty yards away from Wilson, behind whom he finished 
three laps less that distance. Vesey had made elaborate pre- 
parations in the way of clothing to provide against rain, which 
did not come off, and must have been somewhat hampered 
by them, as he was not within three miles of the winner. 

There were eleven starters, five absentees, including 
Keith-Falconer and Oliver Thorn, and the time was 
2hr. 46min. 26fsec. This is the best show we have made 
hitherto in the Championships this year, but we look for 
great things firom Douglas Smith at Taunton. 

QLotxtBpmtmtt. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — As your reporter of the Mile Championship, and 
also in defence of my own property, kindly allow me to 
correct an error which appeared in your last issue. 

GaskelFs last lap was officially given as 40| sec, and it 
was not discovered until some time after that this was the 
time occupied in covering, not the last lap, but the last 
qtutrter-mile, quite a different thing at the CP. 

The regular reporters were informed of the mistake in 
time to rectify it, and I believe that the Gazette shared 
the responsibility of printing it with the Referee only. — 
I am, sir, yours truly, J. S. Whatton. 

[The Field is also in error. — ^Ed.] 



Digitized by 



168 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
H. R. Reynolds has won two Time Medals for 50 miles, 
taking one last year in 2hr. 47min. 52^8ec., and one this 
year on a much worse day in 2hr. 48min. 16sec. 

H. F. Wilson should really try 20 miles in the hour, or 
some good performance of that sort. On Thursday, making 
his own pace, he rides 4 miles in llmin. 36sec. ; and on 
the Saturday, on a heavy track, having ridden 25 miles in 
Ihr. 24min., he does 4 miles in llmin. 54sec. ; 5 miles in 
14min. 58sec., again making his own pace. 

0. Thorn, with 15 yards start, took second prize in the 
Open Mile at the La Crosse sports. Several members and 

member's brothers also distinguished themselves. 

• •«««• 

H. Smith took the second prize at Windsor in the Two 
Miles Open with 80 yards, beating Oaskell from scratch. 

The four miles record has been lowered, and considerably, 
too, under decidedly sensational circumstances, at the 
evening race meeting of the Crighton B.C. on Thursday 
last. It will perhaps be remembered that it was at their 
last year's meeting that W. E. Adam cut the three miles 
record, which still stands to his credit. 

H. F. Wilson, .who, by his performances on Thursday and 
Saturday, has now stepped into the front rank, began 
riding at the beginning of last season, and in the autumn 
he won the Fifty Miles Championship of the Surrey B.C. 
His form has been so good or late that he started in the 
fifth heat of the Four Miles Invitation Race on Thursday, 
with the intention of cutting the record, which he succeeded 
in doing to the tune of 8^sec., a performance which is all the 

more marvellous seeing that he had no one to make the pace. 

• A • • • • 

This record, llmin. 37|sec., was only destined to stand 
for half an hour, as in the final heat, Gaskell, after the best 
race that has been seen this year, defeated Liles by a length 
in the splendid time of llmin. 34}sec., the last mile being 
covered in 2min. 45^sec., a decided contrast to Wilson's 
last mile, which took 2min. 55j8ec. Perry and Tliompson 
were the other starters in the final, the former finishing 

20 yards behind Liles and 15 ahead of Thompson. 

• • • • • • 

The preliminary heats for the Crystal Palace Challenge 
Cup were run on Tuesday evening, with the following 
results Heat 1.— F. E. S. Perry, 1 ; H. W. Gaskell, 2 ; 
J. D. Butler, 3 ; F. R. Fry, 4 ; D. Smith. 5. Time, 
47min. ITfsec. Heat 2.— C. E. Liles, 1 ; A. Thompson, 2 ; 
F. L. Adam, 3 ; W. Brown, 4 ; Tacagni, 5. Time, 

47min. 33|sec. The final will be run on Thursday night. 

• • « • ♦ ♦ 

Messrs. Alford and Gibbs, of the Stanhope B.C., have 
recently ridden 227 miles in the 24 hours. 

The Front Wheel Hub. 



NATIONAL CYCLISTS' UNION. 



July 20th, 1883. 
Report of an Executive Meeting held at the Offices on 
Tuesday, 17th July, 188S, 
The Executive considered a proposal from the Executiv'T 
of the Tricycle Union that a Committee of five should ^je 
appointed to meet five representatives of the Tricycle Ur lOn 
to discuss terms of union, and the Executive finally dec ded 



to appoint five of their number to meet the representatives 
of the Tricycle Union. 

The Committee appointed by the Council some time 
since has presented its report as to Professional racing, pro- 
posing an arrangement by which the Union may organise 
Professional Championships. This report will come before 
the next meeting of the Council for discussion. 

As the offices of the Union are now open every day, the 
Executive have decided to extend the time for opening the 
library as follows : — 10 to 5 every weekday except Saturday, 
when the hours will be 10 to 1. This is in place of the 
times formerly fixed. 

The Executive had before them a number of cases in 
which objections had been made to the amateur status of 
individuals, and investigations are being made. 

The following Clubs have joined the Union : — The Clare- 
mont B.C., the Harehills Cycling, the South Norwood 
Cyclists, the Upper Tooting Cyclists, and the Malvern 
Cycling Clubs. Robt. Todd, Hon. Sec. 

QUILLS. 

A. L. Radford did not ride in the Ten Mile Tricycle 

Championship, owing to an unfortunate difference of opinion 

with a dog on the previous day, in which the dog, by his 

biting arguments, came off victorious. 

««•*•« 

It is considered a ^ood joke on Committee to ask the 
N.W. District Captain what the general feeling of his 
District is on such and such a question. As he has'nt seen 
one of them at the hist two meets, it is a difficult question 
to answer. 

Those who are anxious to scale Chingford Hill must take 
their opportunity, as its crown is shortly to be taken off, 
and the dip between the top and the next hill is to be 
filled up, thereby making a long and easy ascent. 

Among much that is interesting the last number of the 

Wheel World contains a portrait of H. R. Reynolds, with 

a short biographical notice. 

♦ • « * ♦ * 

A good part of the N.E. Division spent Saturday after- 
noon at the Fisheries Exhibition. Surely the N.E. District 
Captain should enquire into this. Porcupinb. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

July 26. — Crystal Palace Challenge Cup. 

28. — Races at Bristol Meet. 
Aug. 1. — Leamington and S.W.B.C. Meeting. 

2. — Twenty-five Miles Championship at Taunton. 
2. — Hamn^ersmith B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
4 and 6. — W. Lancashire B.C. Autumn Sports at 
Liverpool. 

6 and 7. — North of England Cyclists' Meet Races. 
Sept. 15. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 



N0TIC3 TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
Ul oontributionB must be addressed to The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
o5, Eastcheap, E.G./* and most bear the name of the author, though not 
neoessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Darling & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 81, Eastcheap, London, E.G.— July 26, 1888. 



Digitized by 



Google 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. YI. No. 22.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rights reserved.] 



August 2, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

HolidAys 169 

Editorial Notice 169 

In Memoriam 170 

Saturday Rons 170 

Club Meets 171 

A Tour subsequent to that of the Rhine Eight (concluded) 172 



FAOI 

More about Eastern Counties 174 

Correspondence 174 

The 100 Miles Record Beaten at Crystal Palace 175 

N.E. Saturday Run 175 

Quills 176 

Raciog Fixtures 176 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



HOLIDAYS. 

The dull season has set in with its usual severity. The 
attendance at meets is disgracefully thin ; men are either 
away on their holidays, or have important business enj^age- 
ments in some way connected with lawn tennis parties, or 
picnics on the river. The District Captains remain faithful 
among the faithless, some of them, and turn up with clock- 
like regularity to ride on all but solitary runs. There is an 
exodus of officers from town ; the Treasurer retires into 
unknown regions to search for, we hope, to find, the large 
profit the Club is going to make out of a race meeting at 
the Crystal Palace, and to cook that " half-yearly balance 
sheet" which rarely turns up before the autumn. The 
Club begins to work at quarter-man power, and its work 
waits for a temporary revival, or Indian summer in Sep- 
tember, before sinking into quiescence and home-trainers 
till next spring. 

There is one branch, however, of the Club staff" to which 
the dull season means doubled work. Need we say we 
allude to the Editorial department. By the end of July 
the Editor finds the tub growing lamentably empty, its 
bottom only hidden from view by a few choice legacies 
from some of the first ex-Editors of the Club, " A Tour to 
Ripley," " On the Difference between the Front and Hind 
Wheels," and such like novel and interesting subjects. He 



begins to be painfully conscious that he is living from hand 
to mouth, and that his ideas have come to an end just 
when he must continue somehow to fill up two or three 
Gazettbs, with nothing in the tub. Then it is that the 
Editorial genius manifests itself in various ways. Some 
men rush out into a hansom cab, seek the recesses of Holy- 
well Street, and by a lucky purchase of some interesting old 
book, provide themselves with cheap and ample copy for 
the month of August. To others racking their brains for 
matter, there descends as from the skies a long and unex- 
pected tour. Others, with disgraceful cowardice, solve the 
problem of filling four pages of the Gazette, by omitting 
those four pages with great regularity. But the fact re- 
mains that the hoUdays of the Club are the busy tune of 
the Editorial Staff*. 

Members away on tours, and members who have come 
back from many lands with many tales, will ease the Editorial 
labours by sending their travelling experiences to the 
capacious bosom of the Editorial tub. It will be very little 
trouble for them when fresh from their journeyings and in 
robust health, to put down on paper where they went, and 
what they liked and what they didn't like. It will interest 
their fellow members, it will help the Editorial Staff*, and 
it will be pleasant reading for themselves in future years. 

EDITORIAL NOTICE. 
I hope to spend the next three weeks ten miles from any- 
where, and twenty miles from anybody. The Sub-Editor 
will be m charge at No. 35, Eastcheap, and the tub is very 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



nearly empty. Members will enable the Editor to enjoy 
his holiday, and the Sub-Editor to have a really good time 
of it, if they will send in as much copy as possible, on as 
many subjects as possible, without delay ; otherwise some- 
thing awful will happen. T. K S. 



3En ^ztttoxx^. I 



It is with feelings of the deepest regret that we have to 
record the death of our old friend and late fellow member, 
Ernest Carr, which occurred on Thursday, the 26th inst., 
at his residence at Ouildford. A week previous to the sad 
event he was apparently in vigorous health, but on Thurs. 
day, the 19th inst., he was taken ill with diphtheria, and 
although until almost the last serious consequences were 
not anticipated, the insidious malady suddenly developed 
during Wednesday night : the most skilful and loving 
attention proved unavailing, and the life which had been 
so singularly happy, and which was so full of promise for 
the future, passed away early the following morning. 

Having joined the Club in 1877, our late friend, who 
from the earliest days of bicycling had been an enthusiastic 
rider, was known to most of us, and long shall we remember 
the kindly manner and cheerful disposition which made 
him so general a favourite. Though of a retiring disposition, 
which led him rather to shun notoriety, he was ever ready 
to lend his aid to any enterprise which the L.B.G. embarked 
upon, and often have his musical and social talents added 
greatly to our enjoyment. At Club runs, at which he was 
an assiduous attendant (once taking the Attendance Prize), 
his quaint humour and unassuming kindliness made him a 
great acquisition ; and when some time back he left Croydon 
and went to reside at Guildford he was greatly missed, and 
the good wishes of all his friends followed him to his new 
home and new business. Distance from head-quarters and 
a growing business caused him .quite recently to resign 
membership of our Club, but L.B.C. men ever found a 
kindly and hospitable welcome in his new home. He joined 
the local volunteer force ; and it is pleasing to be able to 
record that, when on Saturday last he was laid to rest in 
the quiet cemetery at Shirley, some forty members of his 
corps journeyed there from Guildford to attest their esteem 
and affection for their late comrade. 

We cannot close this brief reminiscence without, on 
behalf of the entire Club, desiring to convey to his sorrowing 
relatives expressions of our sincerest and most heartfelt 
sympathy. 

RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE. 

In accordance with the decision of the Committee there 
will be a race meeting at the above grounds on Saturday, 
22nd September, at 3.30 p.m. The events will be :— 

One Mile Club Handicap. Three priaes : gold, silver, 
and bronze medals. 



Twelve Miles Dbtrict Scratch. Three prizes: bronze 
medals. 

Half-mile Club Scratch* Two prizes : gold and silver 
medals. 

220 yards Flat Race for boys under 16 years of age, 
introduced by members. Three prizes. 

Entry fee for each of the first three events 2a 6d, and 
for the Flat Race, Is. The Twelve Miles District Race 
must be ridden on bond fide roadsters ; only those members 
allowed to compete who have attended at least eight meete 
throughout the season. Each District to have three starters. 
Entries close on 17th September. A member of the Com- 
mittee has kindly offered the first prize for the flat race. 

Members will be admitted free on production of dub 
Badge. No tickets will be issued ; the admission to the 
outside world will be by payment of Is. at the gates. 

It will be seen firom the foregoing that an entirely new 
departure is being undertaken. Tlie afternoon is intended 
to be a purely Club affair, and every member taking part 
in the races or turning up on the ground will make it more 
so. It will serve all the purposes of a General Meet, without 
the bother of having to get to the destination by riding all 
round London, and will have one great attraction which 
the said General Meet is void of, viz., the presence of fellow- 
members' sisters, cousins, and aunts. 

E. S. Prios^ Hon. Sec. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 



N.W. District. 
A glorious afternoon, sent evidently specially for cycling, 
and yet only two members at Jack Straw's Castle." After 
waiting quarter of an hour they proceeded to Hendon 
Station, where Williams was discovered, and the " District " 
rode to Ickenham Harrow and Pinner, a halt being made 
to go over Ruislip Cliurch, where some good old frescoes 
find themselves. Jackson was awaiting our arrival at the 
" Coach and Horses," and Hindley soon turned up. Tea 
being disposed of in much the usual manner, a stroll was 
taken in the adjoining park, where we were much diverted 
by the many coloured rabbits. The return was safely 
concluded, Hindley going on to Windsor for the night. 
Present : Clarke^ Hindley, Jackson, Williams, four visitors, 
and A. H. LowN, District Captain. 



N.B. There will be some riding to Digswell Hill next 
Saturday to tea ; Tally Ho ! 3.30. 



S.W. District. 
After giving late members five minutes grace the district 
started off, accompanied by Hawley. The run was to the 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



171 



pretty village of Mickleham, the direct ronte was taken 
vid Surbiton and Hook to Leatherbead ; tbe roads were 
in very good condition, and a pleasant breeze to an 
extent counteracted tbe fierce beat of tbe sun, wbicb 
bas left off being solky and turned sultry. Hawley ap- 
peared to be in fine form, and deplored tbat tbe next 
Batb Trial was not nearer — he is, it is stated, already 
training bard for tbe enamel of 1884. Wbat are tbe odds 
against bim ? 

By turns Hawley and Sberiff made tbe pace ; at Leatber- 
bead, instead of Micklebam, it was decided witbout a single 
dissentient, tbat tbe run sbould be continued to Cobbam. 
Tbrougb tbe sbady winding lanes, tberefore, wbeels were 
trundled, and notbing stirring occured unless we may men- 
tion a sudden dismount, caused by a drove of cattle refusing 
to budge an incb to allow us to pass. Cobbam was reacbed at 
5.50, and Hawley continuing tbe even tenor of bis way, 
made for Ripley and Aldersbot. The S.W., steadying down, 
made tracks for home, and after a refresher at the Bear,'' 
Esber, arrived safely at the starting point at seven o'clock. 
It is usually found dangerous riding in large parties, so 
members are particularly requested not to turn up in such 
forcOi ten or a dozen are quite enough for an ordinary ruui 
of course at General Meets it is not annojring to see every 
member present Other members were supposed to be in 
the neighbourhood boating, playing tennis, cricket, or 
something else. Present : A. Hawley, and 

K J. Shebbiff. 

Holly House, Mortlake. 
July 28 th. Hawley rode last Saturday alone to Bipley ; 



be was at Kingston a few minutes after starting time, and 
considers he ought to score an attendance. 



S.R DisTEicrr. 
28th July. A fine afternoon, with an absence of the 
usual thunderstorms, was quite a pleasant change. Only 
two men appeared at tbe fire station at tbe time appointed, 
but before reaching Gaterham the party was increased to 
five, and soon after Oodstone tbe B.C., who bad started late, 
overtook the main body. Tbe wind was right behind and, 
with tbe road in fair condition, a moderate pace was kept 
up to East Orinstead. Here Koch, Halliday, and Church, 
with H. R. Reynolds and Wigau were waiting, but universal 
disappointment was felt at the news tbat the O'Reilly was 
unable to attend the run. Wyndbam came in late, and 
brought tbe total up to tbe respectable number of thirteen, 
considering that so many men are away just now. Songs 
and music followed tea, and shortly after nine nearly all 
the party were off, homeward bound. Present : Belfield, 
C. A. Brown, Church, Halliday, S. Herbert, A. Koch (W.), 
W. C. Oswald, H. R. Reynolds, H. N. Sharp, Wigan, 
Whealler, Wyndbam, and 

R. 0. Fbaitois, District Captain. 



On Saturday, the llih August, we run to Walton to 
meet the West. The Croydon Division will wait for the 
Bkckbeath men until 4.30. We shall have tea at the 

Swan " at half-past six. 

R. G. Fbancis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


w. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


BlaoVheath Division. 






Angmt 4. 


— Ko ran on account of Bank Holiday. 








Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
and Syboxn'i Comer 
3.45, for South 
Weald. 


8.45, "JaokStraw*! 
Cartle"£arCoxm 

HiATH. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MUl HiU Boad, 
Aoton, 8.45, for 
Walton • OH - 
Thamis. 
Meet S.E. 


Fzcmo. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Walton -ON - 
Tbaiob. MeetW. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 8.80, for 
Walton • o n • 
THAMxa. MeetW. 


il 


Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
8.45, for Bbith. 
MeetS.E. 


8.45, «Jaok Straw*! 
Caatle,'* for Drar- 
HAIL Meet S.W. 
and W. 


8.45,SaTeraake Cot- 
tage, Miu mu 

Boad, Acton, for 
Dbtham. Meet 
N.W. and S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for DuTHAV. 
Meet N.W. and 
W. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Ebith. MeetN.E. 


Hare and Billet," 
4.80, for Ebith. 
Meet N.B. 


n 


^Lea Bridge Bd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
1 8.45, for Havsbino. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Caatle" for LrmjE 

BXBKHIMFSTIAD. 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MiUHUl Bd., 
Acton, for Dat- 

OHSCT. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Guild- 
ford. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral SUtlon, for 

BlVKBHXAD. 


Old Lewisham 
Chnrch, 4.15, for 

BlTSBHIAD. 



Digitized by 



172 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



A TOUR SUBSEQUENT TO THAT OF THE 
"RHINE EIGHT," 

CoNTiNniNa UP Stream betond Bale to the 
Falls at Sohafhausbn. 

(OOMmnJED VROM PAQI 152, AND OONCLUDBD.) 

Tuesday, 24th. After a pleasant run of 40 miles through 
the Forest we emerged upon B&le, in Switzerland, where we 
of course put up at the " Hotel Trois Rois," and had a 
most affable reception. The landlord quickly apprised us 
of the visit of the " twelve " members of the L.B.C. who 
had honoured him the previous year. The impression 
made upon the inmates of the hotel by their formidable 
numbers had evidently been so great that, far from the 
memory of them fading, their very numbers had been 
exaggerated ! We despatched our muitums from here to 
Schafhausen by railway. 

Wednesday, 25th. On we went, and our cheerful 
smiles, etc., to parody the words of Moore, brought us in 
eventual safety, after a rough eleven miles through lovely 
scenery, close to the miniature Falls at Rheinfelden. The 
increased rapidity of the ''Rhein Strom" so far south 
rendered these falls wonderfully picturesque. From Rhein- 
felden to a village named Stein we misssed our way, and 
found ourselves on a bridle path leading through a wood, 
with the swift-flowing Rhine again within earshot. These 
surroundings were far too attractive to be neglected, and 
seemed fully to compensate us for taking a wayward 
route. Approaching the bank and seeing the stream some 
sixty feet below was irresistible ! and it was here that we 
indulged in the fragrant weed and generally encouraged 
our slothful inclinations too long, as we afterwards reflected, 
when we were doing much " dark riding " towards the end 
of the day. Having rejoined the bridle path we found it 
rideable, and after carefully threading our way through 
the woods to a little village we continued to wander onwards 
for many miles until we were eventually in the right direc- 
tion, and reached Stein about three in the afternoon. 

The road beyond Stein, through Great Laufenburg and 
Brug to the point where we crossed the Aar, was for the 
most part along the banks of this river, and as we rode upon 
another cinder path with a bright sun overhead, between 
well wooded hills which lay on both sides of the river, the 
effect was wonderfully imposing, and this, combined with 
the ease of movement, occasioned by the absence of 
muitums and the excellent surface, rendered this part 
of the expedition most enjoyable. Following this road 
for some 14 miles further progress was stopped by our 
arriving abruptly at the water's edge, and here we crossed 
in a barge to the opposite bank, where the road again con- 
tinued. The system of crossing was new to us, the motive 
power being obtained by ingeniously utilising the great 
strength of the stream for the purpose ; this is done by 
means of a line stretching from bank to bank some fifty feet 



above the river ; on this line runs a wheel, to which our barge 
was attached by a rope fixed in the bows, and thus the conse- 
quent resistance of the barge to the current quickly forces 
the wheel along the line and the boat to the opposite bank in 
the most satisfactory manner. After crossing the Aar, we 
followed up stream, forgetting that we were no longer by 
the Rhine, but considerably south of it : three miles of 
narrow road sufficed to remind us of our mistake, and of 
the necessity to avoid further difficulties, by hastily re- 
tracing our wheelings. Passing a small beer-house, the 
sight of us startled the four horses attached to a waggon, 
which immediately left for the country unattended. The 
caretaker, however, was soon upon the scene, and after 
many incomprehensive but unmistakable invectives, at 
which we were compelled to smile, he started in pursuit. 
We came up with him lat^r, which necessitated further 
remarks on his part ; but we were glad to see that all had 
gone well with the animals and that the driver would 
possibly tone down. After crossing a small tributary of 
the Rhine we were confironted by an immense hill, and felt 
inclined to admire it until we came to a sign post which 
intimated the trying fact that our road to Schafhausen lay 
over it, and not straight on as we earnestly hoped, for 
fatigue was fast taking hold of us. This formidable hill, 
called in the district a Eaiserstuhl, though there are two 
or three larger ones not far off, their peculiarity would 
appear to consist in the abrupt manner in which they rise 
out of the plain. These hills are covered with vines. The 
light was fast fading as we reached the summit, and during 
a few short moments of well-earned repose we were able to 
enjoy the full effect produced by the splendour of the 
setting sun upon the plains beneath. Weary wayfarers are 
not allowed much twilight in this southern clime, and on 
this occasion there seemed to be less of that useful com- 
modity than usual, for before we had fairly regained the 
valley on the eastern side of this Eaiserstuhl we were 
plunged in almost total darkness, and matters were 
rendered the more unpieasing because of the uncertainty 
of the direction of our road. The scene and the surround- 
ings recalled some of the famous lines of Gray's El^gy : — 

" Now fades the glixnmerisg landscape o*er the sight, 
And aU the world a solemn stillness holds, 
Save where the beetle wheels his drony flight 
And drowsy tinklings luU the distant folds.'' 

All the natives seemed to have retired with the sun, for we 
had to ride miles before we met anyone of whom we could 
make inquiries, and no guiding light was to be seen any- 
where ; the country seemed literally left " to darkness and 
to us." "Pursuing the even tenor of our way" for some eight 
miles, which under these conditions seemed exceedingly 
long, We at length saw signs of life, and, attracted by the 
distant glimmerings, our pace quickened until we reached 
a comfortable though somewhat primitive inn, where we 
gladly took advantage of the vacant beds and the promise of 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



173 



a speedy supper, to commence with hot soup, chiefly 
consifiting of water and garlic — a fair arrangement for 
nine p.m. ! Drowsiness soon overtook our party after tliis 
meandering ride of fifty-six miles. 

Thursday, 26th. In spite of numerous insects our sleep 
had been profound, and beyond a few marks by which to 
remember them we had suffered little inconvenience from 
the swarms. The inn was surprisingly cheap, only eight 
shillings for the three of us, which modest sum included a 
small breakfast ; this was our cheapest stroke of business. 

We were now on the main road from Bile, on the northern 
bank of the Rhine, with only eleven miles between us and 
Schafhausen. We quitted the village early, with a view 
to visiting the Falls in the afternoon, and to allow time to 
reclaim our multums previously despatched. A short run 
of a couple of miles brought us to the Frontier Station, 
where I suppose we ought to have expressed our willingness 
to answer any questions, and, if need be, to be searched. 
We were no longer pleased with any form of official inter- 
ference, and hence sought to avoid them. The station was 
conveniently situated (for our purpose) halfway down ahill^ 
and approached somewhat unexpectedly. As we drew near 
the lazy-looking Swiss and German officers could be seen 
either dozing, smoking, or calmly basking in the sun. The 
natural feature of the country, so much in our favour, 
formed too great a temptation to us. With "legs over 
handles" we were quickly upon the officers in question 
(the stop bells worked well !), and by the time they had 
sufficiently aroused themselves to challenge us, letting go 
our brakes we sailed away in triumph out of any possible 
difficulty. The officials were temporarily in pursuit, but that 
was apparently soon found useless, and we saw them in the 
distance quietly returning to their post of vantage, or rather 
disadvantage, for catching 'cyclists, perhaps only to be more 
" leary " in future ! Having thus dexterously avoided a 
stoppage, we contmued to wend our way through a well- 
cultivated valley, against a light head wind, until a final 
climb brought us in full view of the town of Schafhausen, 
most picturesquely situated below us, on the river bank. 
The many small foaming waterfalls seen in this part of the 
Rhine to be flowing with still greater rapidity than any we 
had previously witnessed, and the peculiar richness of 
colour in the green clear waters, further added to the 
charm of the scene stretched before us. 

A short descent brought us into the town, where we stayed 
at the " Hotel Krone." In the afternoon we went to 
Neuhausen, where are the wonderful Falls of the Rhine, 
and, descending through some pleasure grounds, arrived on 
the balcony of the "Hotel Rheinfall." This hotel is 
partially constructed in the river, and from the balcony a 
splendid view is obtained of the Falls, some fifty yards 
away. In order to appreciate more thoroughly the excep- 
tional beauty of this immense cascade, a trip in a flat- 
bottomed boat to the central rock which divides the foaming 



waters is suggested, and with some exceptions (among 
the ladies) deemed expedient. The expedition appeared 
dangerous as we approached close under the Falls and 
endeavoured to glide over these boiling waters, but as soon 
as we had got into macintoshes to keep off the spray, we 
were dexterously shot straight for the rock, and quickly 
landed. The romantic-looking pioneer of our boat, so 
picturesquely costumed, was almost a fac-simile of an 
exceptionally handsome-looking Italian secured in a similar 
capacity to steer a gondola up the course at Henley this 
year ; but the latter performance, though skilful and pretty, 
is mere bagatelle, and did not call into play the strength, 
forethought, nerve, and skill essential for this man, whose 
duty it is to land tourists daily upon a rock where the 
currents constantly vary, and where many boats are reputed 
to have been lost ; yet such was the confidence he inspired 
that we all willingly placed ourselves in his hands ! It was 
a peculiar sensation, standing for the first time on a large, 
quivering rock, and to see such an enormous volume of 
water worked into all kinds of wonderful forms, dashing and 
foaming by on both sides of us, and to hear all the hissing 
and splashing as it wildly plunged into the cauldron beneath. 
The height of the unbroken fall is about sixty-two feet. 

We had been well repaid for our visit, and, as we returned 
to the " Hotel Rheinfall," so impressed were we by the 
expedition that we wished we had put up here instead of 
at Schafhausen, for the pleaanre of passing a night close 
under these enchanting Falls. 

Friday, 27th. A careful consideration of our exchequer, 
which in the Mannheim difficulty had been so seriously 
impaired, and of the subsequent steady filtration, reminded 
us only too forcibly and sadly that we could not linger long. 
Leaving Schafhausen for Zurich by rail in the afternoon, 
we arrived in time to have a bathe in the Lake, and so 
much did the lovely weather and surroundings favour our 
enjoyment that we afterwards regarded this plunge as the 
finest we had had during the tour. There was something both 
novel and strange in being able so thoroughly to enjoy a 
tepid swim in full sight of the snow on the surrounding 
mountains. We stayed at the " H6tel de TEp^e," which 
was clean and moderate. 

Saturday, 28th. We made the ascent of the Uetliberg 
mountain by railway from Zurich, but the atmosphere 
proved too dense upon the summit to enable us to be much 
edified by the visit. 

In the afternoon we had to leave Zurich, and started for 
Dieppe, vid B4le and Paris, a long and tedious journey 
occupying twenty-two hours. 

We arrived in Dieppe in time for some bicycle races, for 
which, " of course," we could not enter, as " there was no 
time to obtain the permission of our Captain!" The 
racing, which at once^ commenced on our arrival (we were 
believed to have come on purpose), was between the clubs 
of Paris and Dieppe and the " Clarence " of London. I 



Digitized by 



174 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



remember no charge was made for a front seat, or for 
inspecting and criticising the bicycles, which we did freely. 
The French racing costume seemed to consist of much 
variety of colour, and an elaborate sash and cap, the whole 
being set off by some imposing top-boots ; each competitor 
also wore an additional band of colour as a distinguishing 
mark. The Londoners, in no demonstrative uniform, still 
managed to secure nearly all the prizes they entered for, 
amid much applause from ourselves. Other details were 
most amusing. To any members of the L.6.G. who have 
not yet visited this French watering place I unhesitatingly 
commend Dieppe both for roads, scenery, and general 
amusement, and for economy and comfort the " Hotel de 
Paris." The total distance we covered on the wheels be- 
tween Cologne and Schafhausen was 407 miles in eleven 
days, during which time we became acquainted with scenery 
and roads that we feel assured it would be very difficult to 
surpass. The return railway expenses came to about £4 
each. 

B. M. Obuogrn. 



MORE ABOUT EASTEEN COUNTIES. 

" Another way," (t^ Cookery Books). 

The following sketch of a route ridden in August, 1882, 
and which differs slightly from those described by H. H. S. 
and W. T. H. in Vol. V. No. 26 and VoL VL No. 1, may 
be found useful to members of the two Northern Districts. 

From Stoke Newington, vid Clapton, over the Lea and 
up Copper Mill Lane (to avoid Lea Bridge Road, then 
undergoing a course of preparation for a tramway to carry 
the toiling masses of the N.E. District to the Forest), Clay 
Street, Woodford, Snake's Lane, through Chigwell and 
Abridge to Ongar, by the road well-known to North-Easters, 
past the hospitable halls of Christie, then to the right to 
Chelmsford. In response to my request for dinner at the 
" Saracen's Head," the waiter produced and placed on the 
table, with the air of one performing a conjuring trick, a 
" smoking sirloin," (I believe that is the correct expression) 
with vegetable accompaniments ; indigenous respectively 
to the soils of the Emerald Isle and the sunny land of 
France ; the preparations were wound up with the trium- 
phant remark, " There, sir ! you could'nt have been served 
quicker than that in London 1 " 

From Chelmsford the roads are good through Braintree 
and Halstead to Sudbury, (" Rose and Crown "), recom- 
mended) ; thence good to Bury St. Edmund's, where, in 
addition to the ancient ruins were to be seen modem ones, 
in the shape of the ravages of a fire — quite a Wood Street 
affair on a small scale. After leaving Bury, fresh stones 
had to be traversed for a considerable distance. By care- 
fully following the usual track worn by carts, it was however 
ridden with the exception of one dismount, caused by those 
animals so dear to Bicyclists (when deceased) — ^the common 



domestic sheep. With this exception the surface was good 
to Scole ; thence the direct road leads to Norwich, the 
nature of which is unknown to this deponent. Turn to the 
right for Yarmouth and Lowestoft ; good roads and rather 
pretty scenery lo Bungay, following the course of the 
Waverly River ; stony narrow lanes to Beccles, better to 
Lowestoft. 

The above will be found a pleasanter route than the 
main road by Romford, Chelmsford, and Ipswich ; the 
surroundings are more rustic and many pretty villages are 
passed though. At the time I traversed it, harvesting 
operations were commencing. I was mentally carried back 
to the old days of chivalry by the Suffolk reapers calling 
" Gie us a largesse," as I passed, but my dreams were 
quickly dispelled, for when they found I did not comply 
with their modest request, the modern expletives which 
they hurled after me, savoured more of Whitechapel than 
of die Lists on the Tilting Tard. 

Ntlb. 



lo the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Dear Sir,— I fail entirely to see why " The Front Wheel 
Hub" should consider tricycle path racing as ''a fish out 
of water," and compare the three-wheeler to a growler or 
an omnibus. I have only seen a few tricycle races, and 
most of those were scratch ones, and even in these there 
was racing, and they were not mere processions with the 
exception, perhaps, of the West Kent. At the only handi- 
cap I have seen, viz., at Wisbech, the finish for second 
place was quite as close as any finish at any bicycle race I 
have ever seen, there being not two feet between the second 
and third men, and the fourth man about a foot behind. 
I have no doubt when the N.C.U. handicapper has a good 
field of tricyclists to handicap he will bring about some 
even closer finishes, and no doubt as time goes on we shall 
see the N.C.U. Championships better contested ; but when 
bicycle racing was in its second year I have no doubt some 
of the races then run were as much processions as some of 
the tricycle races have been. Of course I may take a 
prejudiced view of the matter, as I happen to be a 

Tbiotolisi. 



To the Editor qf the London Bicycle Club OazetU. 
Sir, — It was with mingled feelings of interest and regret 
that I took up last week's Gazettb and read in its pages 
the announcement given by the S.E. District Captain of the 
capture and consequent death of my fishy friend the Eeston 
carp. I cannot suffer my carp to. pass from the cool, watery 
scene of its happy and peaceful life without paying a tribute, 
small though it be, to its memory. I feel justified in styling 
it i" the carp " — ^it was indeed a carp among carps 1 pre- 
dominating over its Eestonian compeers, at any rate. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



175 



in oraft and nviliness (N.B. it was likewise of moderate 
dimensions — ^but more of that anon) ; for although numerous 
attempts have been made to catch it, it has ever heretofore 
evaded the toils — ^for anjrtbing we know it may have been for 
upwards of a hundred years a denizen of the pond as the 
longevity of this fish is notorious, and a century is an era only 
in the life of a carp — ^and now it is no more I " Alas ! poor 
carp!" — my feelings are rapidly becoming too strong for 
control. I must now hasten to the contemplation of a fact 
which has caused me great surprise, viz., that a man of such 
high intellectual capacity and profound erudition as the S.K 
District Captain should deem worthy of particular mention a 
carp measuring only two feet in circumference. Why ! it 
is almost diminutive when compared with the magnitude 
to which many of its species attain. Though conscious 
that I am encroaching unpardonably on your valuable 
space, I should much like to submit to yoxu esteemed 
inspection an extract on the subject from a book I have 
been recently perusing, and which can haixlly fail to 
be considered interesting. Pallas says, that the Volga 
produces carp five feet in length." "In 1711," says 
Eleazar Block, "a carp was caught near Frankfort, on 
the Oder, which was more than nine feet long, and 
three round, and which weighed seventy pounds." In 
the lake of Zug, in Switzerland, one was taken which 
weighed ninety pounds. Monsieur Pesson-Maisoneuve 
says, " In France they reach ten or twelve pounds ; in 
Germany, they become monstrous. They are taken in 
Pomerania thirty or forty pounds in weight, and in Prussia 
fifty pounds is a common size." Now to prove my 
theory of the longevity of carp. It is said, "that the big 
old carp which are to be found in the fosse of the chateau 
at Fontainebleau, in France, were placed there in the time 
of Francis I." Buffon speaks of carp in the fosse of Pon- 
chartrian " which were one hundred and fifty years old, and 
still possessed all the vivacity and agility of ordinary fish.'' 
But I think the evidence is sufficiently strong now, without 
further instances being cited. Should any be inclined to 
doubt the veracity of these statements, I can only say that 
I think if there be one authority reliable above all others 
in matters relating to fish it is that of the watersprite 

Umdinb. 



THE 100 MILES RECORD BEATEN ON THE 
CRYSTAL PALACE TRACK. 

On Friday last, the 27th, Douglas Smith (London Bicycle 
Club), and F. R. Fry (Clifton Bicycle Club), made up their 
minds to try and cut the existing record for 100 miles ; 
so they met at the Crystal Palace, and a start was made at 
twenty-three minutes to ten, the course being in splendid 
order. In the end the previous records, both amateur and 
professional, (6 hours 29 min. 57 sec), were lowered by 
39 min. 5f sec. by F. R. Fry, who rode in a most deter- 



mined and plucky manner, as he never stopped for an 
instant after stt^ting, and kept up a good round average 
of 3 min. 30 sec. per mile till the end, seeming none the 
worse for his long ride. Smith kept with him till 
41} miles had been run and then stopped for 8 min., 
and remounting only did another four miles and then re- 
tired, leaving Fry to finish alone. C. D. Vesey, J. D. 
Butler, and F. L. Adam kindly helped to make the pace 
throughout. 

Appended are the times for each mile over fifty, all of 
which are record : — 



MUes. 
51.... 
52.... 
53.... 
54.... 



H. M. 8. 

2 57 6 

8 46 

8 4 14 

8 7 43 

55 8 10 58 



56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
68. 
64. 
65. 



8 14 80 

8 18 8 

8 21 82 

8 25 1 

8 28 80 

8 82 7 

8 85 85 

8 89 1 

8 42 28 

8 45 56 

66 8 49 20 

67 8 52 45 



68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 



8 56 12 

8 59 50 

4 8 17 

4 6 51 

4 10 21 

78 4 18 54 

74 4 17 81 

76 4 21 12 



Miles. H. If. B. 

76 4 24 45 

77 4 28 10 

78 4 81 88 



79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
88. 



4 85 8 

4 88 82 

4 42 4 

4 46 85 

4 49 2 

84 4 52 80 

85 4 56 81 

86 5 49 

87 5 4 28 

88 5 8 10 

89 5 11 84 

90 5 15 2 

91 5 19 87J 

92 5 22 8 

98 6 25 27 

94 5 28 47i 

95 5 82 28 

96 5 86 11 



97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 



5 40 28 
5 48 21 
5 47 
5 50 5} 



Sporting Life. 



N.E. DISTRICT SATURDAY RUN. 
28th July. The Annual Paperchase was fixed for last 
Saturday, and while possessing some of the eccentricities of 
former years, it as usual resulted in a good muster at tea 
time. The D.C. had been unable to follow the precedent 
of asking the District to Whip's Cross, and accordingly the 
muster was at Snaresbrook Station. Weeks arrived with 
the bags, but announced that the D.C, who was to have 
accompanied him, had wired his intention of being late ; so 
Lloyd was presssed into the service, and the pack reduced 
to the Captain, Jolly, Sharman, Sewell, and Forster. 
The original route was right up the Woodford road, 
no scent being laid for the first mile or so, then various 
digressions to left and right, and by Monkham's Lane 
to Buckhurst Hill Jolly left at George Lane, as he 
thought he knew a better way to Abridge than the 
hares appeared to have found. Sharman also improved 
upon the papered route. The Captain and Sewell lost them, 



Digitized by 



Google 











176 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 






found again, went on, down Buckhurst Hill, up Trap's Hill, 
separated and met again, made straight for They don and 
lost again, and ultimately ran in just a little in advance of 
the hares. Accidents will happen. Forster, after vainly 
searching the vicinity of Buckhurst Hill, gave up in despair, 
and retired down Snake's Lane, meaning to go straight to 
Abridge ; but in the meantime the D.C., twenty minutes 
late, had been searching for scent everywhere within a mile 
of the starting point, likely and unlikely, and having at last 
been round by Woodford Bridge, was coming up Snake's 
Lane, with a view to further enquiries ; he had already spent 
about an hour. Forster was induced willingly to turn back, 
and the D. C. was delighted to hear there really was some 
scent, and repairing to Buckhurst Hill the pair seriously, 
but by no means slowly, worked out every inch of the 
run wnich was capitally laid and a very good line.^ After 
leaving Chigwell Lane it proceeded up Golding's Hill, 
and then an amusing and chasing run or walk through 
the forest to above Theydon, where the hares had 
waited ever so long in vain, and so in to tea just as it was 
getting dark. Lyne had walked over, and there was a 
capital muster besides, so sdgs and the piano cheered a 
pleasant hour when the return journey was comfortably 
effected. Present : A. W. 'Barrett, E. H. Barrett, A. 0. 
Forster, G. H. Gibbs, F. JoUr, A. Lloyd, R. M. Long, 0. Y. 
Lyne, C. Newman (N.W.), E. D. Sewell, C. E. Sharman, 
Harold Smith, and E. A. W^ks ; also F. W. Barrett, A. P. 
Barrett, and P. T. Letchford^visitors), and 

THBO.v,fioPLEE, District Captain. 
[Through the late arrival of* the* above it could not be 
inserted Jn the usuaJ positioo^Ei).] 

QUILLS. . 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliyer it that the porpentine casteth off hii qnillB 
when he would attack, or defend MmBelf, but DioBOorides affizmeth it a 
point of foUy to belieye it."— Sir T. Bbownb. 

R. M. Gruggen, L. Potter, and Zulu are having a very 

jolly time in Kance with their wheels. They -started from 

Dieppe to Rouen, and then on to Troaville ; from there 

they will probably run to Paris and then home. 

• • • ♦ • 

They report the weather excellent, roads k^*^ ;rj»^^^J wine 
and rustics weak and simple, and the casinos ''cuic'* 

Les velocipMes excite the greatest wonderment, and Zulu 
was requested by an imposing Frenchman to show the mul- 
titudes at Honfleur how they were mounted. 

Melons form the staple food, and flies trouble. 

• *•«•• 

Potter's spill at Rouen was well timed — it being in the 
centre of the town — and provoked loud applause, but his 
pleasant smile not only reassured his companions, but also 
the too observant throng who had quickly gathered round. 

It was droll to see a tiny Frenchy offering to mount the 
Colossus. 

The hares in the N.E. paperchase took up a good position 
on the summit of a deep gorge in Epping Forest, just near 
enough to greet the hounds on their arrival at the opposite 
side with a derisive shout, and yet, owing to the nature of 
the ground, far enough o9 to enable them to get away 

with a good start. 

• • • * • # 

On dit, that Brown, Francis, and Gruggen have arranged 
to hold a select Bath Race on their own account next 


Monday, upon which occasion, under favourable conditions, 

they hope to complete the list of worthy medallists ! Will 

any members kindly volunteer to be at the respective 

stations ** with stimulants " upon the day in question ? 
• • ♦ ♦ • » 

Motto for the last S.E. evening run : — 

" Carpe diem." 
Free translation for the benefit of A. W. Oman : — 

** Every carp has ita day." 

Jus^as we are going to press we have the following from 
Gruggen : — 

" Potter, Barker, and self, have been doing a circular run 
in Normandy, through some of the best scenery in this 
lovely province, which comprised a run from Dieppe to 
Rouen (40 miles), 4l hours, first day ; thence from Koueu 
to Honfleur, along tne left bank of the Seine (42 miles), 
upon the second day ; again from Honfleur to Trouville by 
the route t.ermed the Comiche road of Prance, on account 
of the beauty of the scenery, upon the morning of our third 
riding day ; whence again we proceed to Caen, and thence 
by boat to Havre, the tour terminating with a ride along 
the coast from Havre by Etretat to Dieppe." 

m « « • ♦ • 

The autographer of last week's article says, that what the 
printer calls the only fruit being the performances " was 
intended for " the only printing being the programmes." 
We may observe that as it was wholly illegible, words of 
about equal length with the original were adopted. 

The N.E. D.C. was going to enquire into the afternoon 

occupation of his District. I called his attention to last 

week, he tells me, but so many men complained to him o^ 

the paragraph, that he could make a catalogue of the 

defaulters without any trouble. , * 
»•«•«• 

Harold Smith attended his first Club run on Saturday 
last. PoBCuiteE. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enActs that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowxng list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this Ust is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Aug. 2. — Twenty-five Miles Championship at Taunton. 
2. — Hammersmith B.C. Races at Stamford Bridge. 
4 and 6. — W. Lancashire B.C. Autumn Sports at 
Liverpool. 

6 and 7. — North of England Cyclists' Meet Races. 
Sept. 15. — Surrey B.C. at Kennington Oval. 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
A. L. Gruggen, Moosomin, Manitoba, Canada, N.W. 

EditobiaIi Note. — We regret that at the time of going to 
press no account of the W. run has been received. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
oo, Jjiastcneap, J2i.L. , ana must bear toe name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be reoeiyed not 
later than Tuesday eyening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling & SoK, at the Minerya Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Eastcheap, London, B.C.— August 2, 1883. 









Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runb, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 23.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU risrhts resemd.] 



August 9, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

The MemWi Brother 177 

Notice. — Important 178 

lAwn Tennis 178 

An Epitaph 178 

Unofficial Meet in the N.W 178 

Club Meets 178 



PAOB 

The Twenty-five Miles Amateur Championship 179 

All Bound the Wheel 179 

An Evil Eye 179 



Quills 



179 



Bicycles in the Alps 180 

Notice to Correspondents 180 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for '* Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdasns. 

THE MEMBER'S BROTHER. 

Whether looked at in the light of a probable attendant 
at club runs, a probable subscriber to the club funds, or a 
probable rival in the road trial, the member's brother always 
baSj and always will be an object of curiosity and interest 
to the officials and well wishers of the Club. There is, of 
course, a variety of the species, but we shall treat them 
under two heads only — the rider and non-rider. 

The non-rider, perhaps, has nothing to do with us, but as 
he supports us on so many occasions, we can hardly let him 
go without a word. He comes to the dances and various 
entertainments got up by the Club, and is also useful at a 
race meeting to take charge of anyone his brother may take 
down. As, however, he is not likely at any time to join our 
ranks, we will pass him by and come at once to the rider. 
The member's brother, as considered in the light of a pos- 
sible member, the enthusiastic younger brother who is only 
waiting until he shall be old enough to join. D.C's are 
always anxious for him to attend runs, for they know that 
in many cases it means another one to the score, the brother 
often turning out to accompany him when he would not 
otherwise have done so. He is well up in all bicycling 
literature, knows the Blue Book and Gazette off by heart, 
and having the precepts of the L.B.C. instilled into his 
mind early in bis bicycling career, bids fair on joining our . 



ranks to rise to an official position. Look for instance at 
the present officers; four of whom have been member's 
brothers at one time. 

To members whose one topic of conversation is their 
machine or the Bath Trial, (and there are such men) he is 
always a welcome sight, for now they are sure of a hearing 
the while they unfold the (to everyone else) hidden beauties 
of their particular bicycle : and of sympathy as they recount 
the circumstances which just prevented them winning the 
enamel, and he even takes down the fact that there was a 
strong head-wind in their particular year. 

He has a steadying effect on the conduct of his brother — 
the member, and urges him to greater deeds ; for the latter 
knows that whatever he may do will be noted and if possible 
improved upon. This has often been exemplified in the 
Bath Trial. Take the first one and it will be found that; 
three prominent members, who were then member's brother's, 
and whose brothers won medals that year, have since gone' 
and done likewise. ' 

We were a member's brother once, and look back on that 
period of our bicycling infancy (before the Bath Trial had 
been invented) with pleasure not unmixed with regret when 
we remember the amount of innocent pleasure we derived 
from the mere fact that our brother was a member oi 
the L.B.C. 

Before leaving the member's brother, we cannot help re^ 
marking the number of cases in which the member subsides 
on his brother joining. This is a pity, especially whei 
week by week we see what the brothers in the Club do whei 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



associated together for tours, etc. Something ought to be 
done to wake these gentlemen up. We know a few of them 
are engaged and some married ; but unless the remainder 
are frightened of being eclipsed by their younger and more 
energetic brothers, we cannot account for them other than 
that they are taking the former course, in which case we 
offer them Punch's advice— don't ! 

NOTICE.— IMPORTANT. 

Owing to our inability to meet at Ewell on July 21st, a 
GENERAL MEET will be held at Harrow ("The King's 
Head," } on Saturday, August 18th. Members are requested 
to note this change in our programme, and to do their best 
to attend. 

The arrangements are as follows : — 

N.E, leave Lea Bridge Road at 3.30, and meet N.W. at 
"Jack Straw's." 

N,W, leave "Jack Straw's" at 4.30, and ride with N.E. 
to Harrow. 

W, meet at the usual rendezvous at 4.0, and proceed to 
Harrow. 

S, W. meet at " Coach and Horses," Kew, where the S.E, 
will join them by road or rail at 5.0, and these two Districts 
ride together to Harrow. 

Tea at the " King's Head," at the top of the hilL 
For the District Captains, 

ASHLBT W. BaBBETT. 



LAWN TENNIS. 

The third round ended in victory for Reynolds, Naylor, 
and Sharp, who defeated Beck, Elgood, and Francis respec- 
tively. Naylor, having drawn the bye, awaits the result of 
the contest between the other two. Reynolds will un- 
doubtedly prove the winner, barring accidents, and the 
final ought to be a splendid match as the two warmest 
members in the Club will then be face to face. 

Possibly this tie will be played off at the meeting at 
Stamford Bridge in September. H. N. Shabp. 

AN EPITAPH. 
Members of the North- West District and others who 
have visited Shenley know the countrified little church 
soon after our arrival, though not before causing a dearth 
with wooden belfry, which stands just at the foot of the 



hill on which the village stands ; we pass it in going that 
way to St. Albans, but probably few have taken the trouble 
to dismount and pay a visit to its interior. As a matter of 
fact it is scarcely worth while to do so, for the building is 
not specially interesting, either architecturally or archsao- 
logically, but just outside the south porch is the following 
quaint epitaph, certainly a curiosity in its way : — 
" Silent in dust lies mouldering here 

A Parish Clerk of voice moet dew ; 

None Joseph Rogers could excell 

In laying bricks or singing weU ; 

Though snapped his line, laid, by his rod. 

We build for him our hopes in Grod, — 

The Saviour G^od.— that He wm raise 

Again that voice to sing His praite 

In temple blest which slways stands, 

The Church of God not made with hands.'* 

The neat way in which the various accomplishments of 
the deceased are brought in does great credit to the in- 
genuity of the author of the poem. 

Wbst-Noeth-Wbst. 



UNOFFICIAL MEET IN THE N.W. 
"Where do you think you are going to ? " was the question 
put by several inquisitive pedestrians ; as starting rather late 
the roads seemed extra uneven as far as " Tally Ho ! " 
But it was not in vain that high pressure was put on, for at 
the ** Corner " three buttresses of the District were discovered 
pawing the ground (t.^., standing by their machines), and 
we were soon en route for Digswell Hill, some remarkable 
turns of speed being displayed by the three. As is usual 
at this time of the year the inn was in the temporary 
possession of vacillating beanfeasters, but fortunately for the 
peace and quiet of our evening meal took their departure 
of milk. During tea Langmore arrived, and having had the 
usual smoke we started on our different ways ; Neville and 
Williams riding on to St. Neots, and the rest returning 
home, making a long halt at Whetstone Bridge (so called on 
account of the many knife marks on its parapets), which 
spans the Lea. Lamps were lighted at Barnet, and the 
return accomplished by 10 o'clock. Present: Langmore, 
Neville, Price, W. J. Williams, and 

A. H. LowN, District Captain. 

Next Saturday the run is a circular one to Colney Hatch, 
a very pretty ride. Jack Straw's, 3.45 ; Tally Ho ! 
Corner, 4.25. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blaokheath Division. 


August 11. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
and Sybom's Comer 
8.45, for South 
Wkald. 


8.45, Jack Straw's 
Cs8tle"for00LNlBT 
Heath. 


Savemake Cottage, 
MiU HiU Boad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
W ALTOH - OH - 

Thahis. 
Meet S.E. 


FlOHIO. 


4.16, Croydon Cen- 
tral SUtion, for 

W ALTOH - H - 

Thames. MeetW. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 3.80, for 
W ALTOH - H - 

Thames. MeetW. 



August 18.->General Meet at Hahbow. Times and phMies of starting published in this Gazette. 



PJgiti^^i hy ^ ^ 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



179 



THE TWENTY-FIVE MILES AMATEUE 
CHAMPIONSHIP. 
This contest, the last of the Championships, was decided 
on Thursday last, on the Taunton track Ten riders fjEtced 
the starter, the most prominent absentees being Chambers, 
Illston, Palmer, Fry, and Douglas Smitk The running for 
the firstfive miles was made by King andBrock, andatfourteen 
miles Batten, the Edinburgh representative, fell and retired. 
At twenty miles Brock and Robinson were leading, with the 
rest well up, but within a mile of home, Liles came through 
with a rush, and although challenged by Sutton and West, 
won in good style by eight yards from Sutton, of the Edg- 
baston Harriers, West close up. King being fourth and 
Gaskell fifth. Time 1 hour 22 min. 432 sec. Besides those 
mentioned, C. D. Vesey and W. A. Q. Walter also 
competed. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The N.C.U. Championship honours have been well dis- 
tributed this year ; the twenty-five miles, the last of the 
series, having fallen to C. E. Liles, who reports himself as 
fit as ever. Thus the four bicycle contests have been 
secured by difiierent riders, three of whom hail from London, 
the metropolis having shown up better than was expected 
in the early part of the season. 

Oliver Thorn, who seems to have a great partiality for 
second prizes, secured yet another in the Open Mile Handi- 
cap of the Hammersmith B. and T.C. meeting on Thursday 
last. Harold Smith also started in the final, but could not 
get a place. The other L.B.C. competitors were J. D. 
Butler, L. B. Reynolds, and W. Wyndham. 

* • m ♦ « • 

Mr. Terry, who fhas constructed a tricycle to carry him 
by land and water, successfully crossed the channel, and 
continued his journey to Paris. The boat is said to have 
shipped a lot of water, which would scarcely improve the 
going of the wheels. The most practical use of the machine 
would be best shown by a)hare in a paperchase. 

• ••••• 

T. R. Marriott's twenty-four hours tricycle record has 
been beaten by three miles by A. Bird, of the Speedwell 
B.C., in a contest amongst the tricycling division of his 
club. The start was at Birmingham, and the route lay 
through Coventry, Dunchurch, Weedon, Northampton, and 
Bedford, to Cambridge and back, in all 218 miles, which 
was covered in 23^ hours, the winner proceeding back for 
3^ milea 

Our colours were conspicuously to the fore on Saturday, 
at Stamford Bridge, at the annual meeting of the Railway 
Clearing House, thanks to the fine riding of Oliver Thorn, 
who secured the second prize in the Four Miles Scratch 
Race, being only beaten by three yards, after a splendid 



race, by Liles. J. D. Butler was third, two yards behind 
Thorn. 

« ♦ ♦ ♦ • ♦ • 

In the Open Mile Handicap, also, Bath Oliver, who seems 
to be carrying all before him since he has been mounted on 
his new " Rucker," obtained premier honours, J. D. Butler 
again attending upon him and securing the second prize. 
• « • • « * 

The numerical strength of the C.T.C. has now very nearly 
reached the desired 10,000, the latest approximate total 
being 9,931. 

The Fifty Miles Professional International Bicycle 
Championship Race was won by Wood, of Leicester, in 
the good time of 2 hours 48 minutes 10 seconds, at the 
Aylest6n Ground, Leicester, on Saturday. 

The Fkont Wheel Hub. 



AN EVIL EYE. 

Is there in these enlightened days such a thing as an 
"evil eye?'' A short time back, whilst taking a quiet 
evening spin near Waltham Abbey, I was accosted by a 
little ragged boy who requested the loan of a copper ; the 
wished-for money was, however, not forthcoming, and the 
run was continued until a dismount was necessitated by a 
steep and stony descent, when again the cry of the tattered 
urchin made itself heard. "A good job you got oflF, for 
that 'ill, sir, a gem'man like you last week on a bicycle 
tried to ride down, sir, and although I tell'd 'im to get oflF, 
he took no notice, and I see 'im fall off and break 'is neck, 
and he was took 'ome dead on a shutter, sir." Then that 
well ventilated youth became confidential, and enquired 
which road I had taken. I gratified his curiosity; the 
road was immediately recognised, and I was told how a 
fortnight before, after some very heavy rains, the road had 
been flooded, and as he was driving a cart he saw a bicyclist 
in front trying to ride through it, and how, when he got to 
the middle where the water was up to the hub, he fell 
down "with 'is werlocepede on 'im, sir, and he was 
drownded ; and I got five bob for telling the police about 
'is dead body." 

I was at the bottom of the hill ; it was lonely — very 
lonely, and although the boy was of but tender years and 
small, I felt happy when he was out of sight (he got the 
coppers), and I thought I might reach home alive if 
careful; — ^five minutes later my machine broke at the 
neck. Feen. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his qnillfl 
when he would attack, or defend himself, bat Dioeoorides affinneth it a 
point of foUy to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowkb. 

Everybody knows that California* is in the South East 
district, but probably many of our members did not know, 
until they saw A. L. Gruggen's " change of address " in last 



Digitized by 



180 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



week's Gazette, that Canada was in the North West dis- 
trict. After all it is only further proof, if any were needed, 
that London is the centre of the universe, and that the 
London Bicycle Club is — ^well it is not for us to say what 
we are, that "goes without saying," as the French put it 
in their parley-vous lingo. 
* " CAlifomU " is a Btation on the L. B. ft S. G. By., near Epsom. 

• • « « ' » « 

L. B. Reynolds was second in the Combination Race 
(lap with bicycle, run a lap, and ride a lap) at the annual 
sports of the Newbury Cycling Club. 

Competitors in the Bath Trial will recollect the energy 
the Secretary displayed in canvassing them during their 

hasty lunch at the " Checquers." 

• «««»• 

In the course of a prowl on Monday, C. Y. Lyne came 
across an announcement that a swimming bath had been 
opened at Hoddesdon, the water supply being described as 
coming warm from the R^rigerator ! Such a curiosity 
should certainly be visited by the N.E. 

Surgical. — Amongst the names of those recently admit- 
ted as members to the Royal College of Surgeons, England, 
was that of Mr. A. Ogier Ward, M. A., M.B., of the L.B.C., 
and at one time a popular editor of the Club Gazette. — 
The Cyclist. 

Bank Holiday excursionist to member. — "Sittin' up so 

'igh, you must be wery dry." 

• • ♦ m • • 

On Saturday at four o'clock Weeks and Hindley of Ours 
met E. W. Lumley of the Chiswick, Green of the Temple, 
and several others, at Hounslow, and rode through Maiden- 
head, and thence by a circuitous but very pleasant route 
to Henley. From Henley the party went to Benson vid Net- 
tlebed Hill, and put up at the " Crown " at Benson, where 
a good supper awaited us. In the morning most of the party 
indulged in a swim, and after breakfast the majority took 
to boating, while Weeks and Lumley angled. As the dinner 
consisted of ducks and not fish, it was surmised that sport 
was slow. Those who boated rowed up to Dorchester, and 
walked across the old Roman encampment to the very 
ciirious old church at Dorchester, which well repays a visit. 
In the evening some walked to Eirelme (Ewelme), where 
there is also a fine old church and churchyard. It was 
noted that the biographies of the departed ones were writ 
large on the tombstones, some of which have very quaint 
and perhaps ridiculous inscriptions. On the Monday morn- 
ing bathing was again enjoyed. About eleven the brothers 
Bashall, who had tooled their "bus" down from town 
early on Saturday, started for Land's End, and soon after 
Weeks and Hindley rode up to Nettlebed, and were re- 
galed with tennis and lunch by friends of the former. At 
two they were to have met Alison and Eoch, who had ridden 
down to Benson the previous morning ; but as it was 2.45 
before they got to the rendezvous the Meet did not come 



off. What became of Alison and Eoch is shrouded in 
mystery, but Weeks and Hindley had a very enjoyable run 
home by way of Henley, Marlow, Burnham, Stoke, and 
Axbridge. 

• ••••• 

A quiet Bank HoUday in the Essex lanes was enjoyed by 
S. G. Hough, Eelsey, and Lloyd. Dunmow was visited, 
and the notion that the natives have of a splendid bathing 
place was not properly appreciated. The outward journey 
was made md Epping, Moreton, and Hatfield Broad Oak, 
and the return through Fifield and Ongar. The former 
route, though longer, is recommended, as the surface is 
much smoother. 

I shall make use of some strong terms presently, Mr. 
Editor. Here is a Club of about 230 members, a large 
number of whom have spent the last few days on the wheel, 
either in taking smill tours or long rides, and yet there is 
hardly a single on 9 who will volunteer the slightest in- 
formation or ezperi3nce he has gained for the benefit of his 

fellow members. 

• «*•«« 

"I hav'nt done anything worth speaking of," says So- 
and-so when you buttonhole him in the City with the 
object of squeezing something out of him. Further enquiries 
elicit a day's ride of about sixty miles, pleasant meetings 
with other members, and plenty of useful information, none 

of which goes any further. 

«••**• 

Just a few lines containing an epitome of the tour or the 

day's ride is sufficient. Paragraphs are a great deal more 

readable than long yarns, and they can be written in a few 

minutes, without the slightest trouble. Poboufine. 



Bicycles in the Alps. — ** S.," a lady, vnrites from 
Chamounix : — "Travellers in Switzerland are now exposed 
to a new danger. Crossing the T§te Noire yesterday on a 
mule, I met a yonug gentleman with a bicycle. My guide, 
muttering that the^e machines always frightened the uiules, 
called peremptorily to him to take it out of the way. This 
the owner endeavoured to do by leaning it against the 
bank, but, unfortunately, only caused the bright spokes of 
the wheels to flash more alarmingly in the sunlight, and 
my terrified mule turned violently round and fairl> ran 
away. As we haiTjiist passed the T6te Noire, travellers 
familiar with the route will appreciate that the precipice at 
that point did not lessen the uneasiness of the moment. 
This incident may perhaps moderate the enthusiasm with 
which one of your, correspondents has lately recommended 
these machines ior Continental tourists." — From the 
Times, 7th August, 1883. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AH oontributionB iLast be addressed to " The Editor, L.RC. Gazette, 
86, Eastcheap, B.C.,** and must bear the name of the author, thonjirh not 
necessarily for insert' .>n. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if im nediate iusertion is desired, must be reoeived not 
later than Tuesday evening. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Darling Sl Son, at the Minerva i^team 
Printing Office, »>5, Eastcheap, London, E.O. — August 9, 18SS. 



Uoogle 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 24.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All risrhts reserved.] 



August 16, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The MernWs Sister .... 

Notices 

Copyright 

Club Meets 

Saturday Buns 

Notes on » Sootch Tour . 



181 
182 
182 
188 
183 
184 



Correspondence 

N.E. Saturday Run 

Quills 

Racing Fixtures 

Erratum 

Notice to Correspondents . 



PAGE 

187 
187 
187 
188 
188 
188 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for ' 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdaya 



Gazette' 



THE MEMBER'S SISTER 
Our members and their brothers have been discussed in 
these pages, but hitherto no article has been devoted to the 
consideration of the Member's Sister. From no lack of 
courtesy, or from want of appreciation of the importance 
of the subject has this notice been deferred, but rather may 
we claim to have held it back as the bonne baucke wherewith 
to stimulate the jaded appetites of our readers. With what 
zest will they be induced by its title to read our editorial, 
and with what conviction of our incapacity will they lay it 
down ! The dull hard facts of Club Teas and Club Meets 
may with serenity be grappled with, but justice to the 
Member's Sister can only be done by one who combines 
technical knowledge of wheel work and Club life with 
Byronic fervour and the melody of Tom Moore. By saying 
at once that we are no such Bicycular Bard, and nought 
but ''a matter-of-fact young man," we hope to disarm 
criticism, and for our part engage to confine ourselves to an 
earnest enquiry into the Member's Sister — what she has 
done for the Club, and what influence she exerts. If, over- 
mastered by our theme, we should for a moment, with Mr. 
Silas Wegg, " bust vith poetry," we promise to put on the 
break as promptly as can be, and crave the indulgence of 
our readera 

The student will note that the present attitude of the 



ladies differs greatly from that which they assumed a few 
years back towards the pioneers of our sport. The riders 
then was " an egotist," and his beloved wheel was " a selfish 
thing." In vain did he discourse sweetly of hill and dale, 
of breezy upland and honeysuckle laden hedges. By no 
such means could he arouse sympathy sufficient to induce 
his hearer to pardon him for being an absentee. Then 
came the advent of the Three-wheeler, shortly to be followed 
by the Sociable. (Blessed be he who first discovered this ! 
May he be ever venerated, even as Sir Walter Raleigh for 
his precious tobacco leaf!) These gave the means, till then 
wanting, of enabling our sisters to judge for themselves of 
the pleasures of the wheel, and that their verdict is favour- 
able one cannot doubt who notes their present attitude to 
the sport which is becoming theirs as much as our own. 
Since an axiom in diplomacy, — that no undertaking can 
prosper unless the ladies are on its side — ^may be applied 
equally to the world of sport, we may venture to hope that 
the future of the Bicycle, and more particularly of the 
L.B.C., is well assured. Nowhere, not even among our 
members, have we found such care for the well-being of the 
Club, and such intimate knowledge of its doings in the 
past as have been shown by some of our fair critics — the 
Members' Sisters. Though we ourselves are as much per- 
suaded of the existence of this class, and own that its traits 
are as well marked as are those of the " Members' Brothers," 
who a year or so back were carefully analysed and classified 
by a learned writer in these pages, still we know that among 
us are some who think otherwise. To them the Member's 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Sister seems but an idle phantasy conjured up by the lively 
imagination of a hard up writer. These are such men as 
would doubt the existence of the Income Tax and the 
Equator, and may be conveniently crushed by reference to 
the esprit de corps which induced our sisters to present us 
with the Ladies' Challenge Gup, to write from the earliest 
days of this piiblication a series of tales and articles for our 
amusement and instruction, and to encourage all our races 
and festivities by their welcome presence. This is what 
they have done. Now, and at all times, they show in a 
thousand unostentatious ways that the L.B.G. is not for- 
gotten by them, and though no one would dislike more 
heartily than the writer to see the Sociable ousting the 
Bicycle from Club Meets, yet we shall think our decadence, 
which the croakers are alwajns professing to see in the 
heavens, really has come upon us when the Member's Sister 
and the Member's Brother lose their interest in the 
Member's Club. 



GENERAL MEET AT HARROW ON AUGUST 18th. 

Times and places of starting for the Districts are to be 
found in last Gazette. It is hoped the full moon will 
tempt men to muster well at the " King's Head," (top 
of the hill). 

For the District Captains, 

ASHLBT W. BaRRBTT. 



RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGR 
In accordance with the decision of the Committee there 

will be a race meeting at the above grounds on Saturday, 

22ud September, at 3.30 p.m. The events will be :— 
One Mile Club Handicap. Three prizes : gold, silver, 

and bronze medals. 
Twelve Miles District Scratch. Three prizes: bronze 

medals. 

Half-mile Club Scratch. Two prizes : gold and silver 
medals. 

220 yards Flat Race for boys under 16 years of age, 
introduced by members. Three prizes. 

Entry fee for each of the first three events 2s. 6d, and 
for the Flat Race, Is. The Twelve Miles District Race 
must be ridden on band fide roadsters ; only those members 
allowed to compete who have attended at least eight meets 
throughout the season. Each District to have three starters. 
Entries close on 17th September. A member of the Com- 
mittee has kindly offered the first prize for the flat race. 

Members will be admitted free on production of Club 
Badge. No tickets will be issued ; the admission to the 
outside world will be by payment of Is. at the gates. 

It will be seen from the foregoing that an entirely new 
departure is being undertaken. The afternoon is intended 
to be a purely Club affair, and every member taking part 
in the races or turning up on the ground will make it more 



so. It will serve all the purposes of a General Meet, without 
the bother of having to get to the destination by riding all 
round London, and will have one great attraction which 
the said General Meet is void of, viz., the presence of fellow- 
members' sisters, cousins, and aunts. 

E. S. PaiOE, Hon. Sec. 



NOTICE— RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE 
ON SEPTEMBER 22hd. 
With the consent of the Race Committee, a game of La 
Crosse, lasting 20 minutes, will be introduced into the pro- 
gramme. The players will consist mainly of members and 
members' brothers. 

AsHLET W. Barbett, Captain. 



CLUB RACE MEETING. 
The announcement of this event for September 22nd 
contains a notice of a new district event, and, having regard 
to the uncertainty of members' movements, I shall be very 
glad if duly qualified, or about to be qualified, members of 
the N.E. who are willing to compete would let me know 
that I may be able to select a team. 

TuEO. GoDLEE, N.E. District Captain. 



HARROW GENERAL MEET. 
N.E. District. 
I presume that every N.R member who is at all near 
town will attend this meet, as it is so very easy a ride. 

Theo. Godlee, District Captaia 



S.E. District. 
Next Saturday it is to be hop^d that there will be a good 
muster for the General Meet at Harrow. The Croydon 
Division will leave the Fire Station at four o'clock punctually 
and proceed vid Kew, where, according to the Captain's 
notice, they will fall in with the South West at the " Coach 
and Horses," at five o'clock. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



COPYRIGHT. 
Our old correspondent " Goethe," whose name is some- 
what rare in our pages just now, writes indignantly with 
reference to our leading article last week, and refers us to 
our issue of July 30tb, 1880, which it is true commences 
with an article signed by him with the same title as outs 
of last week. He claims copyright, for did he not invent, 
discover, classify, and name a Member's Brother " three 
years ago ? We admit it all, or partly, but our correspondent 
must believe that a good deal happens in three years, and 
it may even be that our editorial omnipotence had passed 
over the previous record. — [Edp.] 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



183 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.£. 

Blackheath Division. 



Angnst 18. — Grenenl Meet at Habbow. Times and plaoes of starting published in last G^lerts. 



^ 1 Lea Bridge Rd. 3.30, 
^ I and Sybom's Corner 
i: \ 8.45, for Havzbino. 


8 45 " Jack Simw'B 
Castle" for LrtTLB 

' BSBBJIEMPSTJULD. 


tage, Mill Hill Ed., 
Acton, for Dat- 


4.15, for GuiLD- 
roBD. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

ElYBBHBAD. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 4.15, for 

ElVIBHIAD. 


"2 fliea Bridge Ed. 3.80, 
J ) and Sybom's Comer 
1 \ 8.45, for Navi- 

1* 1 STOCK. 


8.45, <' Jack Straw's 
Castle," for Eis. 
TKU. Meet W. 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage. Mill Hill 
Eoad, Acton, for 
EuBTBKi. Meet 
N.W. 


Kingston Station, 

4.15, for SUHBUBT. 


Patibohasb.— Addington. 
Meet 6.0. 


*i fliea Bridge Ed. 8.80, 
^ 1 and Sybom's Comer 
1 < 3.45, for Ufhih- 
1 8TEB. Meet S.E., 
g 1 BlackheathDiv. 


8.45, « Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Dioa- 
WBLL Hill. 


Savemake Cottage, 
Mill Hill Eoad, 
Acton, 8.45, for 
WoKiHO. " May- 
bury Inn." Meet 
S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for WoKiHa. 
"Maybury Inn." 
Meet W. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral SUtion, for 
Eabi GBIliaXBAD. 


Hare and BQlet/' 
8.45, for Ufmih- 
STBB. Meet N.B. 



SATURDAY RUNS.' 



N.W. District. 
The run to Colney Heath (not Colney Hatch, as in last 
week's) was conspicuous by the smallness of the attendance, 
but the scenery compensated somewhat. There is a stream 
wherein Julius C»sar is said to have bathed, but anent this 
there are many sceptics. More success attended our efforts 
to obtain cocoanuts, placed on sticks outside a gipsy wig- 
wam, than to get a good tea, which latter was of the most 
primitive description. Present : Hindley, Langmore, 
Williams, and A. H. LowK, District Captain. 



S.W. DKTRicrr. 
Last Saturday being one of the finest days of the year, I 
certainly expected to find one member of our small district 
at Kingston Station, but no such luck. I left office earlier 
than usual, with the sole object of supporting my district — 
our programme being to have a picnic, but which apparently 
fell to the ground, as no one had provided it. I waited till 
4.30 p.m., at which hour I set forth to pursue my weary 
way, the route selected being via Surbiton Hill, Ewell, 
Chessington, and Hook, back to the former place, arriving 
home to tea, having ridden about ten miles. This surely 
ought to count an attendance on my side. Next Saturday 
I hope our district will show a formidable muster at 
Kingston. Member present : H. L. Btak. 

S.E. District. 
August lltL No doubt, had the District at large not 
been under the impression that their D.C. was still in some 
distant part of Cornwall, they would have flocked out to 
Walton on Saturday in their hundreds. As it was, on 

■ 



arriving at the "Swan'' somewhat unexpectedly, he was 
greeted by a small body of faithful few who, under the 
leadership of J. C. Oswald, had found their way over from 
Croydon. With the timely assistance of Church, who rode 
over from Blackheath by himself, the S.E. party assumed the 
gigantic proportion of six, who in company with the Captain 
and four of the West sat down to tea together. Weeks gave 
us a look in while we were discussing a somewhat meagre 
fare. With a larger attendance considerable difficulty as 
to supply and demand might have arisen in the Commissariat 
department. After a riverside pipe, a start homewards 
was made about eight, the South-East being favoured 
with the company of the Captain, who with that indomitable 
energy which is so well known, had determined to ride home 
to Essex by Croydon and Woolwich. In Esher lamps were 
lighted, and we had a very pleasant run homewards through 
lanes, which took us by way of Claygate and Hook, under 
the light of a crescent moon. On nearing Croydon we fell 
in with Andrew Potter and a friend on a double, and on 
reaching Duppas Hill the whole party was hospitably 
entertained by the Oswalds. After admiring the clock, 
which is now in position, we received a warning from its 
chimes that it was time for those living in outlying regions 
to be off, and the party accordingly separated about 
ten o'clock. Present: (S.E.) Church, Halliday, J. C. 
Oswald, W. C. Oswald, S. E. WheaUer, (N.E.) A. W. Barrett 
(Captain), R A. Weeks, and 

B. G. F&AHds District Captain. 



W. District. 

Saturday, 11th. On arriving at the District headquarters 
at 3.45, the robust and pleasing form of the Captain greeted 
my appearance. In response to a late invitation from my- 



Digitized by 



184 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



self to pay us one of those periodical visits which, being 
few and far between, are the more enjoyable when we are 
favoured with them, our Captain, in his usual beneficent 
style, had replied l)y being present in person instead of only 
in nama On behalf of the District, I must offer to him 
every possible apology for the very poor welcome given him, 
and must plead as an excuse that had his intended visit 
been more generally known by the members I am sure that 
our ranks would have been greatly swelled by aU who are 
only too anxious to support our worthy chief on every 
possible occasion. At 4 o'clock a start was effected, having 
been joined by Leeds and Alison. Choosing the Ealing 
lanes in preference to the Richmond road, we proceeded 
to Isleworth and Twickenham, thence past the picturesque 
residence styled Pope's Villa (to be changed to 
"Virtue's Abode" in honour of Truth), occupied by a 
worthy (?) M.P., and the estate of the late Countess 
Waldegrave, which has seen its last days as a private 
residence, adding yet another stone to the mighty heap of 
ruins created by one of nature's antagonists — the Speculator. 
Onward through Teddington to Bushey Park, the ride 
through which one admires the more as being unique 
amongst the public parks through which bicyclists are 
allowed. Turning to the right, after leaving this grand 
old avenue, with its historical associations of Wolsey, we 
passed on to and over Moulsey Bridge, a perfect structure of 
cheapness and ugliness combined, and on through East 
Moulsey and Apps Court. From here the pace, which had 
been good, gets better, being led by our worthy Captain, 
until the climax was reached at the summit of the little 
hillock entering Walton, where fortunately a sharp turn to 
the right for the " Swan " caused the pace to be slackened, 
and allowed breathing time before dismounting at our 
destination. Being the first to arrive, and the time only 
5.20, the Captain with a malicious look proposes that we 
should adjourn to that most ancient and soul-inspiring 
"Gruggen's remains;" I mean the "Grotto," situate in 
Oatlands Park. AH of us at once agree to the proposal. 
By the way, each in turn mentions the name of some ancient 
ruin — ^Tintern, Eenilworth, and even the Great Fingal's 
Gavd itself, meeting however with but scant interest in 
anticipation of the wonders to be disclosed at the far-famed 
" Grotto." Words become few and far between, and the 
pace less endurable in the anxious endeavour of each one 
to arrive at a spot which has become so renowned among 
the members of the L.B.C. ; thanks to the able pen and the 
soft flowing language of that slave to nature, the S. W. D.C. 
But at length we reached the Park Gates, and anticipation 
became more and more intense, increased to a still greater 
height by the frantic endeavours of each one to traverse the 
many circuitous paths leading to the great relic of a bye- 
gone day, and memorial of ducal imbecility. What do we 
behold ? Is this dilapidated rabbit-warren and haunt of 
vermin the long lost paradise of some former day? 



Surely not ! We must have made a mistake ; the efforts 
of so able a pen as B. M. G*s. could not have wasted 
words and praise so lavishly upon this miserable result 
of an imbecile brain, that caused a fortune to be 
wasted in building a hovel for the denizens of the field ! 
But on enquiry we found no mistake had been made, and 
that this was truly the veritable Grotto about which we had 
heard so much. We turned away in silence, and with 
dejected and crestfallen hopes, not for the Grotto, but for 
its historians who had thrown down so much genius in the 
midst of so much refuse. We hurriedly returned to the 
" Swan," where the S.E. Division was found awaiting us. 
After a somewhat uncomfortable meal, and a stroll by the 
river, we adjourned, leaving the Captain to the tender 
mercies of the S.E. D.C. Home was reached at 9 o'clock 
by the same route as on the outward journey, after a very 
pleasant afternoon. Present: A. W. Barrett, Alison, Braby, 
Leeds, Weeks (N.E.)i a visitor, and 

H. C. PiooTT, District Captain. 



P.S. On Saturday next is the General Meet to Harrow, 
in place of Ewell, postponed. All members kindly support 
the District and raise the average. Meet at Savernake 
Cottage, Acton, at 3.45. 



NOTES ON A SCOTCH TOUR. 

" Them that cann* ride mMui shank it" 

The above proverb forms a fitting heading to a description 
of Highland roads, for it is apparent that those who use their 
bicycles for traversing rugged moors, exploring glens, and 
crossing mountain passes, must necessarily find a certain 
amount of it unrideable. The intending tourist will do 
well to consider the difficulties he will encounter before 
starting, and to go with the determination to overcome all 
obstacles. And small indeed is the trouble of wheeling one's 
machine for a mile or two compared with the pleasure 
derived from scenery so grand and so varied as is to be found 
in constant succession in the 

" L«ad of brown heath, and shaggy wood — 
Land of the mountain, feU, and flood." 

For touring in Scotland the bicycle has many advantages. 
In the Lowlands the roads are for the most part very good 
in wet as well as dry weather, and they are certainly greatly 
superior to the average English one. In the Highlands the 
natural features of the country of course present many 
difficulties, but these are over-balanced by the greater 
interest one finds when travelling out of the regular groove 
in which everyone else moves ; the ordinary tourist being 
compelled to travel in a series of rounds, where everything 
is cut and dried, and where the people themselves are of a 
less pronounced stamp than those wiio dweU in their native 
glens. By travelling across country, one gets better oppor- 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



185 



tunities of observiDg and noting the yarious characteristics, 
the peculiarities of the dialect, and the unconscious humour 
of the canny Scot. His cautious answers, his slow method 
of taking things in, which have gained for him the appro- 
priate description of one who is always "keeping up a 
terrihle tliinking" cannot fail to interest and amuse. 
Another advantage is the length of the days. The prolonged 
effects of sunlight and twilight enable one to ride as late 
as eleven o'clock without a lamp, and the Gazette can be 
read at half-past ten. 

As regards expense, an objection so frequently urged 
against Scotland when a tour is in prospective, it is certain 
that ideas on this subject are greatly exaggerated. Avoid- 
ing as the bicyclist does the heavy charges of coaches and 
steamers, it will not be found any more expensive than a 
great many other holiday districts. This at least was my 
experience in the early part of the season ; had I gone in 
the rush my opinion might probably be different. 

For sketching out the route and making plans, the best 
guide books are "Anderson's Highlands;" the old editions, 
published before railways were made, ^ntain valuable in- 
formation as to the roads ; and " Baddeley s Highlands," 
which contains a number of plans, with the various altitudes 
marked in colours. The best and cheapest map is that 
published with the " Sportsman's Guide to Scotland." 
Before starting it is necessary to provide oneself with a 
mackintosh cape for protection against the proverbial Scotch 
mists, and a waterproof saddle cover should also be taken ; 
I did not take one myself, and regretted it very much. 

How to get there ? is a question which can be answered 
in many different ways ; the road, the sea, or the railway 
offering facilities which are either dependent upon the 
fancy, or dictated by the length of the hohday. The plan 
I adopted was to break the journey by riding part of the 
way and steaming the rest, and a very pleasant way it 
proved. From London the road through Peterborough and 
Lincoln to Hull was taken, and thence the steamboat to 
Dundee. The only drawback to this route is the bad 
character of the Lincolnshire roads. From Hull, steamboats 
go to Edinburgh, Dundee, and Aberdeen. For various 
reasons I chose Dundee, and the passage thither was most 
comfortable; the boats from Hull — unlike the London 
ones — are never crowded, and in this particular case there 
were only eight passengers on board. 

Having arrived at Dundee, those who wish to go direct 
to Inverness will find a good road to Perth, where they will 
join the main road through Dunkeld and Blair Athole, 
which is the one taken by the Land's End to John o' Groats 
House riders, and which has also been previously described 
in Vol. V. by W. K. Adam, and also by E. H. Wilkins in 
his account of a Highland tour, in which, by the bye, he is 
occasionally incorrect as to distances. 

From Dundee there is a very good road by the sea coast 
through Montrose to Aberdeen, though lacking in scenic 



effect. This is on the evidence of two local bicyclists, who 
were well acquainted with the road, and one of whom in- 
formed me that he had ridden down south last year to 
attend the Bamet Meet. 

Being bound for Braemar, the popular resort up Deeside, 
my route lay through Blairgowrie and over the Eastern 
range of the Grampians. A minute description of this 
road may perhaps be useful, though by far the best approach 
to Braemar is by the road from Aberdeen. 

The distance from Dundee is 53 miles, and taking into 
consideration the mountainous character of the road, it will 
be found a good day's work. Paving stones extend for the 
first two miles, until the suburb of Lochee is passed, then 
there is a gradual rise for the next three miles, after which, 
with the exception of a steep descent from the Sidlaw hills, 
the going is very good through Cupar-Angus to Blairgowrie 
(19). But so far, the road has only led over moderate hills, 
and the country is well cultivated, the lateness of the 
vegetation being very marked. It is strange to find the 
Lilac and the May in full bloom at the end of June, after it 
is finished and forgotten in England. Once through Blair- 
gowrie, which is situated on the verge of the Highlands, 
the scenery changes entirely, and for the 34 miles to 
Braemar, a constantly changing panorama of mountains is 
presented. The rise immediately on leaving Blairgowrie is 
considerable for three miles, but the surface is first-rate as 
far as the Bridge of Cally, beneath which the Ardle flows 
in a deep and rocky channel. The road for the next three 
miles to Persie Inn," is very bad, about half of it having to 
be done on foot, and it continues rough and stony till within 
three miles of the Spittal of Glenshee, when it improves. 
Meanwhile, the aspect has been gradually getting grander. 
The mountains, with the snow between their rugged masses of 
black rock, are more lofty, and the wild and gloomy scene 
is heightened by the wail of the curlew, or the mournful 
cry of the sea birds which haunt the lochs and streams. 

Leaving the Spittal of Glenshee where there is a good 
hotel, the road gradually ascends Glen Beg, the first five 
miles being rideable ; but the shoulder of the Gairnwell has 
now to be crossed, and the machine shoved up a steep 
zigzag known as the Devil's Elbow, which rises two hundred 
feet in half a mile. The top of this pass is 2200 feet above 
the sea level, and it is said that the road is the highest in 
the kingdom over which a coach is dragged. From the 
summit the road descends gradually for the remainlDg nine 
miles through Glen Clunie, and it is only by constant 
attention to the brake that the machine can be kept in 
hand. For the grandeur of the surrounding scenery the 
village of Braemar has few equals. In the neighbouring 
glens, and in the valley of the Dee, there are many 
picturesque bits which should not be missed, and for those 
who have a taste for mountain climbing the prospect, on a 
clear day from the summit of Lochnagar, or the peaks of 
the Cairngorm group, is unsurpassed in Scotland. There 



Digitized by 



186 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



are two hotels— the "Fife Arms/' and the "Invercauld 
Arms " — both of which are expensive, but first-rate. 

The ride down Deeside to Aberdeen, distance 56 miles, 
can be accomplished with great ease in a day. The road 
leads down by the Castle of Braemar, and on the right 
hand is overhung by rocky precipices, clad on every possible 
spot with pines and birches. At a distance of three miles, 
the Dee, lashed into foam by its rocky bed, is crossed by 
the new Invercauld Bridge, and close to it is the entrance 
to the deer forest of Ballochbuie— considered the finest pine 
forest in Britain. About a mile through the forest, are the 
Falls of the Garrawalt which can only be visited when the 
Queen is away from Balmoral. 

From Invercauld Bridge the road descends very gradually 
for the next five miles. In the middle of the road the 
surface is very rough, but on each side there is a narrow 
strip of smooth ground. 

Balmoral Castle, the Highland home of Her Majesty, situ- 
ated on a lovely spot by the Dee, is now passed on the right, 
and about two miles further on is Abergeldie, the property 
of the Prince of Wales. The gradient, with the exception 
of one or two hills, is favourable till close upon Ballater, 
where there is a steep brae just outside the village, the site 
of Ballater being 430 feet lower than Braemar. I had no 
personal experience of the road from Ballater to Aberdeen, 
but from the accounts of those who have ridden it, it 
appears to be a splendid one and nearly level all the way. 

From Braemar it is impossible to get to Inverness without 
traversing some very rough ground. The only road crossing 
the mountains to Speyside, the various stages of which are 
Crathie(9),Rinloan (13),CorgarflF(21),Tomintoul (30),Gran- 
town (44), Bridge of Carr (55), Inverness (79). From Crathie 
to Grantown the surface is dreadfully bad, without men- 
tioning the hills, so much so that the charge for posting 
from Braemar to Grantown is no less than five pounds. 
Though strongly advised not to attempt it, it was my in- 
tention to have done so, but an accident to my machine at 
Crathie compelled me to make for the train at Ballater, 
whence I proceeded to Aberdeen, and by rail again next 
morning to Inverness, a proceeding which did not fall in 
with my views. Railway travelling in the Highlands is 
very slow, and one can easily credit the tales that are told 
of the train being stopped to enable the guard to get a 
light from the driver. To be cooped up in a crowded 
carriage for five or six hours while the train only covers a 
Imndred miles is very poor fun, compared even with 
tramping over a moorland road. 

Inverness, finely situated on the river Ness, is a convenient 
place to stay the night, and the "Royal Hotel" will be 
found first-rate. There is nothing of great interest in the 
town itself. The Cathedral, a comparatively modern 
building, is the finest ecclesiastical building in the North of 
Scotland, but that, after all, is not sapng very much. In 
the neighbourhood there are many beautiful views, and in 



the river some large islands covered with trees are kept up 
as public gardens. 

The Great Glen of Scotland, which extends from the 
Moray Frith to Loch Linnhe in a series of lakes which form 
the Caledonian Canal, attracts a great number of cyclists, 
and if time and circumstances permit, it should certainly be 
included in a Scotch tour. The road, taken by Wilkins and 
Faxon, and described in the Gazette, follows the northern 
shore of Loch Ness, it is considerably better as regards hills 
than the one which runs along the opposite shore. But the 
famous Falls of Foyers to be seen on the way induced me to 
try the southern side, and such a magnificent sight amply 
repaid the extra trouble. 

Soon after leaving Inverness, the road passes for some 
distance through a thick avenue of beeches, and then it 
becomes hilly, until the village 6f Dores (7^) is reached. At 
this point the road falls in with Loch Ness, and a fine view 
of the lake is obtained on the top of the hill above Dores. 
From here there is a glorious ride for eight miles, the road 
running along quite close to the water, and the surface is 
perfection, with the exception of some gullies across the 
road, which however are quite rideable if care be taken. 
A considerable ascent has now to be made before the 
"Foyers Inn," 18 miles, is reached. It is advisable, if 
refreshment is needed, to take it before visiting the Falls, 
as they are a mile on the road to Fort Augustus, and a 
steep hill has to be surmounted. The lower Falls, only a 
short distance from the road, are the grandest They 
descend through a narrow gap over a height of ninety feet, 
and fall with a tremendous roar into a deep and rocky 
hollow. A good view may be obtained firom a ledge oppo- 
site the cascade. About a quarter of a mile further up the 
road are the upper Falls, which, though not so grand as the 
others, are well worth visiting. The road to Fort Augustus 
now deviates from the side of the loch, and proceeds on the 
south side of the hills which bound it. About five miles 
from the Falls, over hilly country, is " Whitebridge Inn," 
and the road now rises considerably for the next three 
miles, and then it descends to Loch TariT, a pretty lake 
studded with small islands, and after winding down Glen 
Doe, a charming little glen luxuriant with ferns, a steep 
hill two miles long leads down to Fort Augustus (32). 

As I now took the route from Fort Augustus to Fort 
William and Ballachulish, a description of which has 
already appeared in these columns, it is only necessary to 
give my general impressions of the road, which were rather 
disappointing after the favourable reports I had heard of it. 
Dismounts are very frequent, owing both to the mountain 
streams, which tear up the surface, and the numerous gates 
which cross the roads in this part of the Highlands. Great 
care must be taken in keeping to the right road, particu- 
larly on the north side of Loch Oich, where there are 
several difficult situations. A Scotch woman, who put me 
right just as I was taking the wrong road, told me that 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



187 



bicyclists invariably went wrong at that particular spot. 
Direction posts are almost unknown in the north of Scot- 
land, and the mile posts are nearly always illegible. 

The distance from Fort William to Ballachulisb, according 
to Anderson^ is 14 miles, probably measured to the ferry, 
while the mile posts, which made it 12|, measure to the 
beginning of the village, some distance west of the ferry. 
From Ballachulish to Eingshouse the distance is 16 miles, 
not 12, as stated by Wilkins, and from Eingshouse to 
Inveroran it is 10 miles, not 16. 

(To be continued). 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
THE MEMBER'S BROTHER. 

Snt, — ^The uninitiated, reading your article in last week's 
Gazette, would imagine that the Member s Brother — 
speak of the genus that rides — is a most desirable attendant 
at Club Runs, and should be encouraged as much as possible 
by the D. C's. But, unfortunately, he has a very great 
drawback, and has not qualified. He has not paid a sub- 
scription, nor has he passed through the ordeal of election. 
I am aware this is a very delicate subject to write upon, 
but still I venture to address you to impress upon your 
readers the advisability of forming some rules to regulate 
and decide the locus standi of the Member's Brother. For 
why should he ever join the Club if he is not a racing 
man ? He sees his brother's Gazette, and his own name 
printed amongst those of the attendants of Club Meets. 
If he tours, he can, through his brother, obtain by means of 
the Gazette all the information he requires. He can 
always depend on being in a position, through his brother, 
of buying tickets for Club Balls, Smoking Concerts, etc., 
in fact he is in exactly the same position as an Honorary 
Member {vide Rule 7) if we except the power of voting 
at General Meetings. 

Now, be it understood, I am far from wishing to prevent 
a member from bringing a brother or a friend to any Club 
meeting, but I do wish to see some regulations formed 
iiRiich will preclude him from some one of the advantages 
of the Club — not from any motive of selfishness, but simply 
that something may be left to induce him to join us, and to 
pay his guinea into the scanty coffers of the Club. I would 
suggest that members be invited to bring their brothers to 
not more than six Club runs in the year, and that at Club 
runs the latter should ride in the rear ranks. — Tours, etc., 

^ WiVKRN. 



To the Editor of the London Bicyde Club Gazette, 
Dear Sir, — Would it not be a good idea to add a race 
for 100 yards to the programme for 2^d September ? 

That being a distance easily accomplished without much 
preparatory inconvenience in the way of training would, I 

t 



feel confident, draw considerably among the members who 
vote longer distances too much trouble. 

I submit this idea for the consideration of the Race 
Committee, and feel sure, should they decide favourably, a 
good entry would be the result. — ^Yours, etc., 

14th August, 1883. Mebcubius. 



N.E. DISTRICT SATURDAY RUN. 
August 11th. Those members who did not attend the 
run last Saturday missed a treat. Even the clerk of the 
weather had made up his mind the District should be 
happy, and gave us a tail wind all the way out, and no 
wind, but a bright moon, on the way home. And the roads ? 
Well, a firm, dry gravel road can be good travelling, 
if it tries, and they did try on Saturday. Unfortunately, 
however, as these merits were not frilly detailed before- 
hand, only two members met the D.C. at the comer, 
and a certain sense of calmness being observable in 
the .party, they decided to avoid all needless hills, and 
accordingly proceeded by Redbridge and a lower road, 
some parts of which were not very familiar, and there 
was a tendency to decline the responsibility, but to accept 
the credit for such fact on the part of some of the party as 
the road appeared good or the reverse. Hog Hill was by a 
side wind comfortably compassed to the surprise of all 
concerned, and after the Havering turning the route was 
very charming with pleasant lanesovershadowed by trees, and 
with a pleasant undulation, which only added to the interest 
without materially interfering with the comfort of the riders. 
We asked the way to the Tower Arms " at last, as we were 
practically standing outside it, but we are unlikely to forget 
it A sumptuous tea for ten had been provided, and the 
dejection of the D.C. was complete until a further con- 
tingent of Barretts made up the party to five. Before a 
peaceful saunter in the garden was over the Treasurer 
turned up, and six seemed a fairish muster for the time of 
year as we made our way home by the same route as before, 
under the pleasant atmospheric conditions mentioned above. 
Present : E. H. Barrett, R. B. Hough, Jolly, Lyne, A. P. 
Barrett (visitor), and 

Thso. Godlee, District Captain. 
[Through the late arrival of the above it could not be 
inserted in the usual position. — ^Ed.] 

QUILLS, 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine oasteth off his qulllB 
when he would attacl^ or defend himself, but Dioecorides affiimeth it a 
point of foUy to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowkx. 

What is a " departure of milk? " vide the N. W. unofficial 
run last week. It sounds^ther refreshing. 

The N.W. ought to rise to the occasion with a General 

Meet at Harrow again. Now is their chanca 

• «••«• 

We hear that a member of the N.E. is proceeding to 



Digitized by 



188 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZ^ITTE. 



Rio de Janeiro for a few months, so we shall hope to hear 
of the progress of the wheel in South America. 

H. R. Reynolds left Croydon jpn Tuesday, July Slst, at 
5.30 a.m., picked up W. D'A. TTrofton near the Marble 
Arch, and rode with him by a circular route to Northamp- 
ton and Leicester, where they strfjred the night (122 miles). 
The next day they went by an indirect route to Thorne, 
Yorkshire (91). On Thursday (J|ofton left, and Reynolds 
rode on to Durham (98) ; next day to Berwick (83) ; 
arriving at Edinburgh (59) on Saturday. Distance, 450 
miles in 107^ hours, all of which was done without hurry, 
cathedrals and castles being visited en route. 

In Monday's Daify Telegraph is an article entitled 
" Saturday Afternoon on Hampstead Heath." The objec- 
tionable notice-boards entirely absorbed the writer's atten- 
tion, or he could scarcely have failed to mention the 

meeting of the N.W. host. 

. • * • • • • 

One of the three who visited the S. W. Grotto last Satur- 
day reports, that Oruggen has overlooked the best thing 
about it in his account, namely, the twisted spikes over the 
gateways which give admittance to "this shell house." 
These are really fine examples of wrought iron work, and 
are evidently much older than the gates which they 
surmount, the latter being of very clumsy and inferior 
design. 

• •«*•• 

Also, that if the Duchess of Tork could not find a better 
place than a second-rate sort of cellar to wash herself in, she 
is very much to be pitied. The^hole in the floor would not 
make a bad place to pickle pork in, if provided with a well- 
fitting lid ; but as a bath it is a distinct failure. This was 
very clearly demonstrated by the sapient remark of another 

of the three, " Where did the hot water come from ? " 

• «•••• 

A cyclist was shoving his tri. up Barnet Hill, when the 
facetious " 'Arry " asked him "why he did'nt get in front 

and learn to draw ? " 

• ••*•• 

The General Meet at Harrow was, no doubt, meant as a 
pleasant surprise for the S. E. D. G. Somehow he did not 
seem to take it as such on his jetum from a fortnight's 

holiday on Saturday. 

• «•*•« 

While disowning any share in the arrangement, he hopes 
the S.E. district will, by a large attendance, assist him in 
making the best of the inevitable. 

The recent alterations in the Meet Card are due, it is 
said, to the radical tendencies of some of those in authority. 

In the August list of candidates for the C.T.G. is the 
name of our President. 



Early this month.. S. Herbert and R. G. Francis left East 
Grinstead in the morning and rode through Horsham, 
Pulborough, and Chi Chester to Pareham, where they lunched, 
and then on thro ^h Southampton and Lyndhurst to 
Ringwood. Here t* ey arrived in a soaked condition about 
seven, and stayed tl e night at the " White Hart." Next 
day owing to the re 'U a late start was made, and with the 
roads in a very stic 7 condition they reached DofcJ^ster 
for lunch, and Brid;>ort in the evening. After a ba^pin 
the sea, they left a out eight next day for Exeter, over 
roads rough and h*. \y ; passing through Axminster they 
stopped for lunch ai Honiton, and arrived at the " Half 
Moon," Exeter at Ax in the evening. The following 
morning Herbert rode on to Ilfiracombe, while Francis took 
train for Penzance. 

««•••« 

On the 11th Angast, 1883, at St. Mark's, Kennixigtoii, by the Bev. 
A. H. De Fontaine, W-'.uam Thomas Thobn, of 19, Great Portland 
Street, and 11, Ladbroke Sqnare, W., to Elizabeth (Lizzie), eldest 
daughter of Bichabd h^NNirr, Esq., of 79, Blackfriare Boad, S.E. 

POEOXTPINE. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bnle 40 enacts that no .tiember represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been ftubmitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at ary meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Aug. 25. — Ipswich B.C. Meeting. 

27. — Winchester and County Cycle Club. 
Sept. 1. — Lincoln B.C. Meeting. 

8. — Nottingham B.C. Sports. 
15. — Surrey B.C. Autumn Meeting at Eennington 
Oval. 



Companion Wanted. — Three members hope to tour for 
three weeks in September in France and Switzerland. Being 
anxious to make the party up to four, I shall be glad to 
bear from any one who would like to join. 

W. J. Williams, 

23, Highbury Place, N. 



Ebbatum. — By a mistake in the making-up of onr last 
issue, line 3 of " An Epitaph " should have been inserted 
between lines 12 and 13 of " Unofficial Meet in the N.W." 



NOTK TO CORRESPONDENTS. 

An oontribntions must be addreesed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gaxette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C.," and most bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for inserticf* They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if imm Jiate iosertion is desired, most be n^rud not 
later than Tuenday ever^.ig. ^-,| j 

Printed for the Propri : '-on by Dabuno Si Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 8C Eastcheap^ London, E.C.— August 16. 1888. 



Digitized by 



An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 25.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU rights reserved.] 



August 23, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The Harrow Meet 189 

Notices 190 

dub Meets 190 

All Round the Wheel 191 



Correspondence 191 

Quills , 192 

Racing Fixtures 192 

Notice to Correspondents 192 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for " Q-azette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 

THE HARROW MEET. 

Although everybody said that everyone was out of town, 
and though to a N.E. or S.E. man Harrow is about as 
accessible as the North Pole, a fairly representative party, 
thirty-two in number, sat down to a capital tea at the 
" King's Head." It was a lovely evening, such as one 
only meets with in the early autumn. The valley, stretching 
beyond the Hill into dim distance, wa^. already being illu- 
mined by a brilliant moon ; and, gazing at the fair scene, 
the North-easter for a moment forgot the twenty miles of 
macadam that parted him from the gravel lanes of Essex. 
Generally speaking, the roads by which our men reached 
the rendezvous were in good order ; the weather was 
supreme (although some malcontents were heard to mutter 
that it was " close"). The tea was varied and abundant, 
and the landscape, specially arranged for the occasion, 
combined with the pretty garden to make a success of 
our last Gteneral Meet in this year. 

The W., N.E., and N.W. men were the first arrivals, 
followed, in about an hour, by the S.E. 

The W. men journeyed vid Ealing Apperton, and Sud- 
bury, and if a nation without a history is happy, they may 
be assumed to have enjoyed themselves, for, like the needy 
knife-grinder of the ballad, their D.G. has no tale to tell." 

The N.W. D.C. reports :— 



''Although not possessed of the presumption displayed 
by the N.E. D.C. (vide last Gazette), yet I expected to 
see more at the rendezvous than appeared. However, in 
spite of ' everybody being out of town,' on leaving Hendon 
Station behind us we presented a formidable troupe, with 
the help of the * little D.' and the N. W. collie, as we wound 
through the Kenton Lanes. Our companions were quite 
unable to control their feelings of admiration for the 
scenery, and, even when they had perceived Harrow, con- 
tinued to roam through the lanes for the best part of the 
afternoon. The return journey was more expeditious." 

The S.E. D.C. reports :— 

" Last Saturday with its blazing sun, and not very acces- 
sible meeting place of Harrow, did not seem to appeal to 
the inclinations of many of the usual attendants at S.E. 
runs. Punctuality was the order of the day, and the clock 
had scarcely struck four when the six men assembled 
at the Fire Station started on tlieir way for the General 
Meet. Owing to a strong feeling against Kew Bridge, 
which was strengthened by a rumour that the shadowy 
legions of the South- West would not be found there in 
force, the road by Kingston Bridge was adopted. This 
alternative proved fairly successful, for after passing 
Twickenham and Hounslow with a minimum of the ob- 
jectionable macadam, a pleasant lane was hit on which 
brought the party in an almost straight line for Harrow 
Hill. Here F. H. Williams, who had ridden by Kew, 
joined the ranks, but as Hartridge, who was mounted on a 
strange machine, had turned back previously, it was still 



Digitized by 



Google 



190 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



only six in number that the S.R men arrived at the " King's 
Arms." The other Districts were already on the spot, and 
were mostly engaged in taking in the view from the garden 
terrace. After tea, and a quiet pipe in the garden, the 
moon rose on the scene, and a general move homewards 
was made about half-past eight." 
Tlie N.E. D.C. Reports :— 

" The main body may be assumed to have left the Corner 
three strong within five minutes of time and proceeded 
without a dismount to Jack Straw's, whilst the D.C. and 
Lloyd starting about the same time, proceeded by Tottenham 
direct, and also without leaving the saddle reached Jack 
Straw's shortly after the others, and thus, accumulated to five, 
were received with all hospitality by the N.W. D.C. This 
oflBcer desiring the N.R to learn that there was macadam 
even in the N.W., took them up about two miles of Edg- 
ware Road to Hendon Station, and then reinforced by Lyne, 
who had come a different route, and by two N.W. members, 
rode to the proper route for Harrow, but for unexplained 
reasons preferred riding back to Blackpot, and by a 
species of 8, succeeded ultimately in reaching Harrow by a 
route, it is calculated, some five miles further than the usual 
one. Four at least of the N.R rode up the hill, and 
Harrow was reached about 6.80. Here the Captain and 
Weeks made up the N.E. contingent to eight. The return 
journey was taken with the N.W. by way of Fiuchley, at 
a pace not calculated to alarm the most well-regulated 
rider until the N.E. D.C. became fractious and spurted, 
and then and there asserted that he was in his own district 
and proposed to lead with the Captain. Thenceforth on 
vid Muswell Hill the pace increased, an impetus being 
given when the balance of the N.W. left them, and again 
when the party was reduced to the Walthamstow contin- 
gent — a force of four members and a visitor — so that the 
pace from Wood Oreen was unusual for a Club run." 

It is feared the absence abroad of the energetic S. W. D.C. 
permitted the S.W. men to play truant. The Captain, at 
any rate, on his own account, desires to record sorrowfully 
that, according to programme, he waited for them in vain 
on Eew Bridge, after a ride down from the City, through 



crowded and greasy streets, in which he seemed to have 
lived a lifetime ; also be wishes to thank members for their 
readiness in falling in with at such short notice the altera- 
tions in the Meet Card involved in the substitution of the 
Harrow General Meet for those before arranged. 
Present : — 

W. Koch, G. S. Hewitt, H. M. Hewitt, Scott, P. M. 
Williams, W. E. Naylor, Dr. Langmore, two visitors, and 
H. C. Pigott, District Captain. 

N,W. Alison, Hindley, Jackson, Wilkins, Williams, 
four visitors, and A. H. Lown, District Captain. 

N.E. Ashley Barrett, R. B Hough, S. G. Hough, Kelsey, 
Lloyd, Lyne, Weeks, one visitor, and Theo. Godlee, District 
Captain. 

S.E. Church, Hartridge, McIUe, W. C. Oswald, P. H. 
Williams, S. E. Whealler, and R G. Prancis, District Captain. 

AsHLET W. Babbbtt, Captain. 

NOTICR 

I shall be absent from town during the first two weeks 
in September. Theo. Godlee has kindly consented to 
attend to Club business during that time. Communications 
should therefore be addressed to him. 

Ashley W. Barbett, Captain. 



S.R DISTRICT.— NOTICE. 
Next Saturday the run is to Riverhead, one of the 
favourite meets of the District. The Croydon men will leave 
the Pire Station at 4. 30, and will meet the Blackheath Division 
at 5.15 on Pamborough Common. Tea at the Amhurst 
Arms," at 6.30. R. G. Praegis, District Captain. 

W. DISTRICT. 
On Saturday next I quite expect a large number will 
attend the run to Datchet, as several members from other 
Divisions haye promised to pay us a visit at this favourite 
riverside resort, where the pleasures of the wheel and the 
river amalgamate in ^orious unity. We meet at 3.45 at 
Acton, and the dbtance is only thirteen miles from the 
starting point. All who can come are welcoma Tea at 6.30. 

H. C. PiQoTT, District Captain. 



PIXTURES POR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


aw. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


Blackheath Diyision. 


il 


Lea Bridge Ed. 8.30, 
and Sybom*8 Corner 
8.45, for Havbsino. 


8.4(," Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Littu 
Bbbkhsmpstsad. 


8.45, SavemakeCot- 
tage,MmHmitd., 
Acton, for Dat- 

CHITT. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Guild- 
ford. 


4.15* Crogrdon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

^ RiYBBHBAD. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 4.15, for 

BlVBBHBAD. 


September 1. 


^Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom'B Comer 
1 8.46, for Navb- 

BTOOK. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle,'* for Bus- 
TUO. Meet W. 


8.45, Sayemake Cot- 
tage, MiU HUl 
Road, Acton, for 
Elstbbi. Meet 
N.W. 


Kingston Station, 

4.15, for SUHBUBT. 


Papbbohasb. — Addington. 
Meet 5.0. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



191 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
In the One Mile Professional Championship at Wolver- 
hampton, Wood again proved his superiority over Howell, 
winning by seven yards in 2 min. 56^ sec. 

• • • • • • 

Oliver Thorn scored another win at the Ravensboume 
AG. Meeting at Stamford Bridge on Saturday afternoon, 
beating Robinson of the Ranelagh Harriers, who ^started 
from the same mark (10) by five yards in 2 min. 50| sec. 

• «•«*• 

A very sensational performance was done by F. Lees, the 
the Sheffield Professional, at the Belgrave Road Grounds* 
Leicester, on Saturday. He started with the object of 
covering 20 miles in the hour ; and so weU did he succeed, 
that when the pistol was fired he had covered 20 miles, 905 
yarda The fastest miles were the first in 2 min. 51 sec., 
the tenth in 2 min. 48 sec., the eighteenth in 2 min. 
50 sec., the nineteenth in 2 min. 51 sec., and the last in 
2 min. 47 sec. 

««•••« 

Howell, who appeared on the track. to make the pace, 
attempted to cut the record for a mile^ which he covered 
in 2 min. 41f sec. 

• •««*• 

The 24 hours record has again been beaten by J. W. 
Brown, who has accomplished 231^ miles in the day. 

• •«««• 

Considering what has been done by. the " Facile " and 
the tricycle, the record for the legitimate two wheeler is 
very poor. 

• ••••« 

Accounts of how So-and-so has lowered it by 2^ miles 
will soon get monotonous unless a crack road rider turns 
out and does something respectable. Now then, H. R. ! 

A library, containing so much thatlTusefuI in the sh^ie 
of guide books and maps, as does that of the N.G.U., should 
certainly be taken advantage of to a greater extent than it 
is at present. 

If the signatures in the register of readers include all 
who have used the library, the total for the past three 
months amounts to the insignificant number of twenty-two. 

Neither does the new arrangement of keeping it open 
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. bring any additional readers. The 
only convenient time, viz., from 5.0 to 6.S0 p.m., has not 
yet been tried. Those who finish work at 5.0 frequently 
have engagements in town later on, and they are reduced 
to kicking their heels about in a fruitless endeavour to pass 
the time. 

The Fkont Wheel Hub. 



THE MEMBER'S BROTHER. 
To the Editor qf the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — I am an old offender, though my offence has ceased 
for many years ; but, with all humility, I would venture to 
dissent from " Wyvern's** principle. 

You are mistaken, all you unrelated members, in my 
humble judgment, if even in the most distant way you 
hinder the attendance of a member's brother. There are 
two causes which will serve all practical purposea One, 
that no member's brother who attends runs often will 
stop outside the Club if he can avoid it. I found it too 
expensive a luxury at one time. Secondly, the D.G., 
if he is worth his salt, will soon intimate to the 
member or the brother that it is time we saw more or 
less of the brother aforesaid if the privilege is abused. 
I speak from experience, and I speak with a most sincere 
conviction that I am right I imagine " Wyvem " would 
not wish to exclude the member's brother from our runs ; 
but I do not think he fully realises the sensitiveness of the 
persons he is desiring, with the best of intentions, to curtaiL 
If a member's brother is informed, as " Wyvem's" letter 
informs him, that he is not wanted, believe me — for I have 
tried — he will be seen no more. — ^Yours, etc.. 

An " Ex-Mbmbeb'8-Brotheb." 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Clvb Gazette. 

Sib, — ^Although in no way doubting the sincerity of 
" Wyvem's " motives, and recognising fully the temperate 
manner in which he has stated bis views, I hope he will 
pardon me for expressing my entire dissent from them, 
llie subject is, as he says, a delicate one— so delicate, in- 
deed, that merely to give it utterance in these pages will be 
sufficient for a length of time to scare from our meets many 
a friend and visitor whomVe, and " Wyvern " I am sure, 
as much as any of us, would have wished to have been 
present. Were it a common thing for our Club Teas to be 
constantly invaded by the same well-to-do strangers there 
would have been much appropriateness in the suggestions 
of your correspondent ; but our visitors are, in my opinion, 
far too rare, and our " members' brothers," who from time 
to time come among us, a(e, alas ! too apt to be afflicted 
with that impecuniosity which has troubled most of us at 
some period of our historyT The relief of such a malady, 
however, may be usually left to time, and with its cure the 
" member's brother " may usually be found joining our ranks. 
In thinking the matter ever it seems to me that for 
many reasons we should in every way encourage visitors, 
whether "members' brothers" or no. 

They tend to sustain theinterest felt by the L.B.C. man 
in his Club, inasmuch as thefree and unrestricted privilege he 
has hitherto enjoyed of bringing them with him to his Club 
tea has been greatly valued^ Also, as was ably pointed out 



Digitized by 



192 



LONDON BICVCLE CLUB GAZEITE, 



by yourself in a recent leader, it is often the visitor who 
has helped to swell a D.G.'s average by bringing out a lazy 
member wavering between the riter and the tennis-court. 
To the tea and the run, where thoy entail neither expense 
the Club nor trouble to the B.C., they impart a certain 
freshness. To exclude them, which I submit would practi- 
cally be the result of adopting any such limitation as 
Wyvern " suggests, would go far to shut us out from what 
has proved itself in the past our best recruiting ground. I 
cannot but think, sir, that the surest mode of developing the 
member's brother into the member, is to bring him as 
frequently as possible to our meetings, and that to keep up 
our numbers, if from no better motive, we should continue 
to extend to all visitors at our Club runs the same hearty 
welcome that has been held out to them in the past.-- 
Yours, etc., 

Ashley W. Barrbtt. 



MODEST HOTEL CHARGES. 

To the Editor of the London Bicyck Club Gazette, 

Dear Sir, — ^To those of our members who are fond of 
living at the rate of several thousands a year for a short 
time, and getting very little worth for their money, I can 
highly recommend "THE ROYAL STAG HOTEL," 
Datchet, Bucks. Hot lunch— joint, pastry, cheese, 48. 6d. ; 
breakfast— chops and eggs, 3s. As the West District have 
a run to and tea at the above hotel next week, it will be a 
grand chance for the Club Mashers. The hotel opposite 
the Manor is, I believe, still dearer. — ^Yours truly, 

On-'E IfoTTEN TWJOB ShY. 



QUILLS 

Aristotle and Pliny deliver it th*t the^^ogM^e OMteth off Us quUls 
when he would attack, or defend hfanself T)uij>f osoorides affinneth it a 
point of foUy to believe it."— Sir T. Bw^rm, > : - 

''A land of poetry and dreams * is at present the correct ; 
description of the editorial office. No sooner had' an article ' 
appeared on the "Member's BtcAher" than gallant mem- . 
bers seized their pens, and descriptions of the Member's 
Sister," each vieing with the otlier in admiration of the 
subject, poured in on every side. 

«••*/«• 

The staff-*fresh from the pt^rusal of these inspired 
effiisions, replete with the supciiative degree, heed not 
the dust of Eastcheap, nor the fi^bris of falling walls, for 
their thoughts are removed faraway to pleasant places, 
where they seem to be walking beneath the shade of the 
tall elms in the rich glow of thcrevening, their ears intent 
alone upon the gentle notes of— ~the frog. 

It has not yet been decided \f}a,t shall be done with the 



articles in question, 'mt a special supplement, price half-a- 
crown, is talked of. 

♦ ♦ • « ' # • • 

From what I hear I at Harrow, the family meeting, to be 
held on the 22nd pi > ximo, is very popular, and bids fair to 
be a great success. (Ireat interest is centred in the Twelve 
Miles District Race,^!>nd members were heard eagerly dis- 
cussing the chances of the various districts. 

The N.W. D.C. got such an amount of innocent pleasure 
on Saturday out of counting up his score, that I had not 
the heart to remind him that visitors — of whom he included 
four — ^are reckoned, at General Meets, as a whole, and do 
not count to any one. district. 

• ••••« 

Design for a Medal to be struck in commemoration of the 
Harrow Meet : — ProSle of the Captain, with a harrowed 
expression of countenance. Inscription : L.B.G. a pied, 
Harrow, 1883L Reverse : Eew Bridge, with a. solitary 
figure leaning on bicycle. 

Why have our officers such a partiality for Norfolk? 
The Treasurer has just returned from there the Editor 
is at present disporting himself in the Broads, and the 
Captain will shortly follow in the same direction. 

The France and Switzerhud quartette has, I am sorry 
to say, fallen through at the last moment. 

POKOUPIME. 



RAING FIXTURES. 



^Knle 40 enaots that no n^»^ber represent the Club at any race meeting 
without pennieiion frcin the Captain. The foUowing Ust of Racing 
Fizturee has been sv^vfuHed to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at h^./ of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 

: ^t^.^om^jnicate with t le Captain. 

• Aug. Ipswich B.C. Meeting. 

27. — Winchester and County Cycle Club. 
1. — ^Lincoln B.C. Meeting. 
8.— Nottinpr \am B.C. Sports. 
15. — Surrey 'J.C. Autumn Meeting at Eennington 
Oval. . 



.Sept. 



NOTICE CORRESPONDENTS. 



/ 



AU contributions must >.e addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gamtto, 
85, Eastcheap, £.0.," and ^Twst bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. Th^ must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immedrnte insertion is desired, must be: received not 
later than Tuesday CTenii^ 



Printed for the Proprieto^v by Dablino Sl Sok, at the Ifinerra Steam 
Printing Office, 85, r.Mtcheap, London, E.C.— August 28, 1888. 



Digitized by 



Google 



An OmciAL Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings op the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 26.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[AU risrhU resenred.] 



August 30, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The Potteror Unmasked 

NoticeB 

Club Meets 

Batnrday Riass , 

Notes on a Sootdh Toor {eonduded^. 
Correspondence 



193 
194 
194 
195 
196 
198 



PAOl 



The Twenty ^es Professional Championship 199 

AU Ronnd the Wheel 199 

London to Edinbmtj;h 200 

Quills « 200 

Racing Fixtures 200 

Notice to Correspondents 200 



NOTIOB. 

The latest hour for reception of oopy for Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.]n. on Tuesdays. 

THE POTTERER UNMASKED. 

In an article early this year on my experiences with a 
lazy friend, I was unfortunate enough to bring down upon 
me the wrath of one who took upon himself to champion the 
cause of the Potterer." I need hardly say that my remarks 
were not armed against this worthy clasef, though from one 
of them haying taken up the gauntlet, I am driven to the 
conclusion that laziness and pottering are more nearly akin 
than I thought. Qui s'eacuse s'accuse. 

Much has been written in favour of the pottering 
paragon. We are called on to admire his harmless and 
retiring disposition, the absence of any desire in him for 
pots, medals, and such-like lucre, and his love for the 
beauties of nature. AU these are admirable qualities, but 
I should like to ask whether they are really the product 
of a well-trained mind, or merely the outcome of a master- 
ful inactivity. Now it is not difficult to imagine that 
the man who lazily reclines on his back on some jM>tn^ de 
vue may have no more regard for the beauty of the scene 
than he who comes up the hill with his nose on the wheel, 
only to disappear down the other side with his legs over 
the handles ; and that many of those whom we see enjoying 
a quiet pipe amid the ruins of some feudal castle, or on the 
shady side of a Roman tumulus, have about as much anti- 



quarian research at heart as the man to whom these objects 
are but landmarks on his road to or from such and such a 
place. It is against laziness as a component part of the 
common potterer that I would raise my voice. We are 
told that because one man gets up early and braces his 
limbs in a good hard day's run, therefore he can have no 
eye for the picturesque ; and because another indulges in 
frequent repose, and is lackadaisically indolent, therefore 
he is embued with all the susceptibilities of the poet and 
the painter. No doubt there is some satisfaction for the 
lazy elf who rides little and cares for it less in " laying the 
flattering unction to his soul," that he is a distinguished 
member of the gentis Potterer, in fact a kind of pariah 
among wheelmen, and in sneering at the energetic as a 
bicyclical Philistine. He may go further, and as he dreams 
away the hours lulled by the babbling waters that flow by 
the Castle of Indolence, he may imagine what a lasting 
support he is likely to be to his Club ; but it is not im- 
possible that his bicycling animus (or the little of it that 
remains) will die out like the glimmer of a farthing rush- 
light quite as quickly as the more brilliant light of his 
energetic compeer and leave less trace behind it 

To drop metaphor, what would become of our Club if we 
all went in for being Potterers? There is far too little 
energy even now for us to depreciate what does exist. The 
noble art of pottering will probably be forced on most of 
us some time or other, whether we like it or no. Meanwhile 
by an energy tempered with moderation, we shall get the 
greatest amount of enjoyment from our sport, and at the 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



same time be doing our duty as members of an active 
community. A man either admires the picturesque, or he 
does not ; is interested in ruins and fossilized bones^ or is not. 
These qualities are born in him. The veritable and much 
maligned " Scorcher " — even in his most rabid stage — ^who 
has, and affects no care for these things, is I would maintain 
more entitled to our respect than the wight who hides his 
averseness to action in a simulated interest for nature's 
charms and the memories of a byegone age. Dodo. 

RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE. 

In accordance with the decision of the Committee there 
will be a race meeting at the above grounds on Saturday, 
22nd September, at 3.30 p.m. The events will be 

One Mile Club Handicap. Three prizes : gold, silver, 
and bronze medals. 

Twelve Miles District Scratch. Three prizes : bronze 
medals. 

Half-mile Club Scratch. Two prizes : gold and silver 
medals. 

220 yards Flat Race for boys under 16 years of age, 
introduced by members. Three prizes. 

Entry fee for each of the first three events 2s. 6d, and 
for the Flat Race, Is. The Twelve Miles District Race 
must be ridden on boiid fide roadsters ; only those members 
allowed to compete who have attended at least eight meets 
throughout the season. Each District to have three starters. 
Entries close on 17th September. A member of the Com- 
mittee has kindly offered the first prize for the flat race. 

Members will be admitted free on production of Club 
Badge. No tickets will be issued ; the admission to the 
outside world will be by payment of Is. at the gates. 

It will be seen from the foregoing that an entirely new 
departure is being undertaken. The afternoon is intended 
to be a purely Club affair, and every member taking part in 
the races or turning up on the ground will make it more so. 
It will serve all the purposes of a General Meet, without the 
bother of having to get to the destination by riding all round 
London, and will have one great attraction which the said 
General Meet is void of, viz., the presence of fellow-members' 
sisters, cousins, and aunts. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



NOTICE. 

I shall be obliged, if during my absence for the first two 
weeks in September, correspondents will address all com- 
munications on Club business to Tbeo. Godlee. 

ASHLET W. BaSRETT. 



STAMFORD BRIDGE GUARANTEE FUND. 
Members who put their names down for the above fund 
are requested to send their subscriptions (10s. each) to 
Stephen P. Smith, 9, Morden Road, Blackheath. If any 
other member would like to subscribe, their donations will 
be thankfully received, and if more than the sum required 
is subscribed a return will be made pro raid. 



RACE MEETING ON SEPTEMBER 22nd. 
If time and opportunity permit, H. N. Sharp has kindly 
promised to arrange for the playing of the final tie in 
the Lawn Tennis Tournament at Stamford Bridge, on 
September 22nd. 

AsHLET W. Babbett, Captain. 



SOUTH-EAST NOTICE. 
Owing to the Stamford Bridge fixture the Crawley run 
will take place on the Saturday previous, 15th September, 
instead of that to Wrotham. I shall be glad to receive the 
names of any who intend to join in the run. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



N.W. NOTICE. 
Those who are willing to ride in the " 12 Miles Roadster " 
on the 22nd September for our district are requested to 
send me their names. A. H. Lown, District Captain. 



GENERAL MEET AT HARROW. 
H. H. Sherriff attended at Harrow on Saturday, the 
18th instant, but was unable to stay to tea, or to chronicle 
the run for the S.W. District, as he started early the next 
morning for Switzerland. Thus on that day the S.W. did 
not draw a blank. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


aw. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


September 1. 


^ Lea Bridge Rd. 3.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
1 8.f5, for Nave- 

' STOCK. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle/' for Els- 
TBBi. Meet W. 


3.45, Sayemake Cot- 
tage, MiU HiU 
Road, Acton, for 
Elstrex. Meet 
N.W. 


Kingston Station, 

4.15, for SUNBUBT. 


Pafxbchabx. — Addington. 
Meet 5.0. 


September 8. 


1 Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
1 and Sybom'B Comer 
3.45, for Upmin- 
BTER. Meet S.£.y 
Blackheath Div. 


3.45, ''Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Dias- 

WELL HlLJ^ 


Savemake Cottage, 
MUl HiU Road, 
Acton, 3.45, for 
Woking. " May- 
bury Inn." Meet 
S.W. 


Kingston Stition, 
4.15, for Woking. 
"Maybury Inn." 
Meet W. 


4.16, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Gbinstead. 


"Hare and BiUet," 
3.45, for TJpiciN- 
8TBB. Meet N.E. 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



195 



SATUEDAY RUNS. 



N;E. DijSTBICT. 

August 25th. The absence of its lawful chief in Wales 
did not prevent the little District from making a respectable 
show. Barrett, Baldwin, and Lyne, who had reached " The 
Orange Tree " at Havering-atte-Bower by different routes, 
sat down to tea, while the Treasurer and a friend arrived 
as they were about to depart. On the way home, via 
Collier Row, Sidney Hough and Sewell joined the party. 
Lamps were lit on the top of Hog Hill, which, owing to 
stones and darkness, was more than usually refractory. The 
weather was hot. There were many stones out, and as far 
as the historian of this run could learn, nothing was talked 
of but the September race meeting, speculations being nu- 
merous concerning our D.C.'s selection of representatives 
for his District. Present : Baldwin, L3me, Hough, R. B., 
Hough, S. G., Sewell, one visitor, and Jack (the District 
terrier). Ashley W. Babrbtt, Captain. 



N.W. DiSTEICT. 

It is most astonishing how the holiday season seems to 
affect our " District ; " for although numbering over forty 
members, yet only three carried out the run to Little Berk- 
hempstead last Saturday. After tea had been despatched 
and the return journey commenced, Jackson broke a treadle- 
pin at one of the hills, and had to ride home with the help 
of one foot only, which however, did not seem to incon- 
venience him in the slightest. Present : Jackson, Williams, 
and A. H. Lown, District Captain. 



W. District. 

Last Saturday I arrived at Savemake Cottage at three 
minutes after four p.m., but found no one there ; I ac- 
cordingly started immediately en route for Datchet. 
Fortunately, at the top of Gunnersbury Lane, I met 
Scott awaiting my arrival. We decided to go for a 
circular run, taking Datchet within our circle, so stri- 
king the Ealing main road we rode to Hanwell ; here, 
turning sharp to the left under the Great Western 
Railway bridges, we proceeded to Norwood Green and 
Harlington. Crossing the Bath road we made for Bedfont. 
Before running into Bedfont we turned to the right, and 
ran through Ashford and Stanwell. The roads were 
now almost uurideable on account of the dust. We ran on 
through some very pretty scenery beyond Stanwell to 
within one mile of Datchet, when, instead of going on into 
the latter place, we branched off for Staines, as both of us 
wanted to get home early. From here the main road was 
found bad as far as Bedfont, where Sc«tt stayed for tea, 
leaving me to continue the journey to Eew alone, where I 
arrived about 7.15, after a very pleasant run. Present: 
Scott, and H. C. Pigott, District Captain. 



Another Account, 
Two members rode from West Drayton to Datchet on 
Saturday, and after devoting an hour to punting on the 
river, had tea at the " Manor Hotel," one of the most 
picturesque houses in this picturesque village. For the 
benefit of " Once bitten, twice shy," they may state that 
the cost of the tea, which consisted of a lot of good things, 
was half-a-crown. Present : W. E. Naylor and 

F. M. Williams. 



S.W. DlSTMCfT. 

H. L. Ryan seems to have been the only representative 
of our District at Kingston Station on Saturday last, and 
as lameness (the result of a recent spill) prevented my being 
able to help him to carry out the run, Guildford was not 
visited at all. We note with regret, in the Gazette of the 
16th August, that an apparently unsatisfactory visit has 
recently been paid by the West District, accompanied 
by our ubiquitous Captain, to the celebrated Grotto in 
Oatlands Park, and in the account given of the expedition 
by the West D.C., we are led to infer that Buckler and 
self had in some measure contributed— by our descriptions 
of this unique spot — towards their somewhat extraordinary 
disappointment ; but in this we feel that blame can- 
not be attached to us. Our sarcastic commmentator 
upon the merits of the Grotto may perhaps be in- 
terested to know, with regard to "Gruggen's remains" 
as he facetiously calls them, that they are still lively, 
and that. Phoenix like, he has risen out of those remains, 
or as Gray beautifully observes, " even in his ashes live 
their wonted fires." We fear that our intelligent visitors 
have had little experience of Grottos, for otherwise they 
could scarcely call to mind things so utterly dissimilar, and 
have perpetrated the anomaly of comparing the phenomena 
of nature with mere works of human art ! Why our worthy 
Captain should be described as having assumed a malicious 
look, so foreign to his nature, we are at a loss to compre- 
hend ; his malice, if such it can be called, could only have 
consisted in a generous wish that his men should see all 
there was to be seen within this enchanting shell-house. 
Having great confidence in our Captain's good judgment, 
skilful discrimination, and knowledge of antiquity, I feel sure 
we shall not ask in vain when we urge him to convey to us in 
writing an impartial statement of the impression that the 
grotto in question produced upon him upon the occasion 
of this singular visit. The designation of the work as 
exhibiting " ducal imbecility," has some warrant, for this is 
only one of many instances of money lavished upon useless 
structures, which after completion have been justly denomi- 
nated as " so and so's folly." We could have given the 
West D.C. some credit for his allusion to the refuge the 
Grotto afforded for " vermin and other denizens of the field 
and air," had we not at once detected the plagiarism of 
ideas from Dickens, who in describing an arbour, designates 



Digitized by 



196 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



it as " one of those places which humane men erect for the 
accomodation of spiders." We sincerely hope that the dejec- 
tion and senseof feeling crestfallen which our cyclingneighbour 
so graphically expresses has not permanently overwhelmed 
bis peace of mind, especially when he hears that this grotto 
is acknowledged to be well worthy of a visit by all those 
who admire a special, remarkable, and most elaborate work 
involving, as it did, so much labour, and which elicited so 
much artistic skill in carrying it into execution. The run 
next Saturday is only to Sunbury, and as this distance is 
so short, and the river-side usually so attractive to our 
members, I trust that as many as possible will put in an 
appearance at Kingston Station at 4.15 p.m. 

B. M. GBUQGEif, District Captain. 



Another Account. 
We arrived at Kingston a little late on Saturday 25th> 
but hoped to find some member of the District. Not having 
that hope fulfilled we carried out the run to Guildford, 
finding the roads veiy loose and stoney. Present : J. W. 
Alison, and A. H. Koch. 



S.E. DiSTRIOI. 

The breaking of two treadle-pins, one crank, and an 
unlucky somersault, though they cannot be said to have 
added to the pleasure of last Saturday's run, certainly 
relieved it of some of its monotony. Tlie first victim was 
Barker, who snapped his treadle-pin just at the start from 
Croydon ; fortunately no bones were broken, and with the 
aid of a brother's tricycle and a gypsy's donkey, he succeeded 
in following the whole run ; and it was due to the versatile 
genius of the rider, who had never ventured far on a tricycle 
before, that the three-wheeler came through the day with 
no little credit. Twelve men and one visitor 'met on 
Famborough Common about half-past five. The visitor's 
crank gave way on the hill by Bromley Union, and Stephen 
Smith stayed behind to see it put right. If the road was loose, 
so was the order up the long rise to the *' Polhill Arms ; " and it 
was owing to the former that oneof theyouthfulflyerswho was 
scudding along with visions of Crawley and Stamford Bridge 
attending him on his way, slipped his treadle, and un- 
premeditatedly bit the dust. A nasty cut was plastered up 
by J. C. Oswald in quite professional style, and though a 
little shaken, our hero was soon mounted again, and going 
along as if nothing had happened. After a short halt for 
strawberries on the top of the hill, we ran easily down the 
other side to Riverhead. Though our arrival was somewhat 
late, tea was still more so, the landlord of the "Amherst Arms" 
having gone away without giving the necessary instructions. 
The stroll in the garden while tea was being got ready was 
diversified by anecdotes from Barker and Potter of their 
experiences in Normandy. A short half hour only was 
allowed for a postprandial pipe, and at a quarter to nine 
lamps were lighted, and the return journey commenced. 



On reaching Famborough, Whealler's treadle-pin broke, 
with no serious results beyond a short delay, while the 
spare pin which Stephen Smith had, as usual, brought 
was fitted in. Without further mishap the various parties 
reached home not long after eleven. Present : Barker, 
Hartridge, S. Herbert, McRae, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, 
L. Potter, F. B. Smith, S. P. Smith, Whealler, P. H. 
Williams, one visitor, and 

B. G. Fraistcis, District Captain. 



Next Saturday, the Croydon Division will leave the 
Fire Station at half-past four and meet the Blackheath men 
at Addington Church at five o'clock, when the hares will 
start at that hour punctually. We shall have tea at the 
" George Inn," Downe, at 6.30. Any man who cannot join 
in the chase will, I hope, meet us thera 

B. G. Francis, District Captain. 



NOTES ON A SCOTCH TOUB. 

(COHTINUXD FBOM PAGB 187.) 

Having arrived at Ballachulish, the steamboat may be 
taken to Oban, where the tourist can get to any point he 
likes. This alternative is introduced for the benefit of 
those who may not care about crossing rougher ground 
than that which they have already experienced, as the road 
through Glencoe, across the moor of Bannoch and over 
Blackmount to Tyndrum (35) is of an exceptionally difficult 
character. The scenery is wild in the extreme, and the 
pass of Glencoe, in which the horrible massacre took place, 
is the gloomiest and most rugged glen in Scotland, though 
what the guide books say about the impending hills almost 
shutting out the daylight is great twaddla 

Leaving the ferry at BalUchulish, the road skirts Loch 
Leven for two miles as far as the slate quarries, and the 
next two miles are very fair, after which we enter the lower 
portion of Glencoe, where the road is in parts covered with 
big stones, brought down the mountain sides by the torrents 
which intersect them, and the best mode of progression is 
to lift the backbone up and wheel it over as best you can. 
Along the solitary loch, situated in the lower half of the 
glen, the road is rideable, but on getting into the upper 
half, which is wilder and totally destitute of vegetation, 
the road ascends considerably, and a great deal of shoving 
has to be done. When the head of the glen is reached, the 
road descends with a stony surface for three miles to 
" Kingshouse Inn." 

The prospect from here over the Moor of Bannoch, one 
of the largest tracts of its kind in Scotland, is wild and 
desolate to a degree ; and if the weather happens to be 
" saft " as the natives put it, the masses of vapour driving 
over the hills add to a scene which, notwithstanding its 
dreariness, has yet a certain fascination to an eye accustomed 
to the green aspect of the southern counties. The road 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



197 



for the ten miles to Inveroran crosses Blackmount, and 
some hard work must be done for the first four miles, but 
a considerable descent of about three miles is made to the 
shores of Loch Tulla, where the Inn of Inveroran is situated. 
It is a comfortable little house, surrounded by pretty 
scenery, and is a great resort of anglers. 

The next stage to Tyndrum is nine miles ; the road 
winding along the shore of Loch Tulla for some distance 
from the Inn. After an easy ride of three miles, a mile or 
so of steep hill has to be walked, and then the road dips 
again into a valley ; after which there succeeds a long rise 
over the hills above Tyndrum, the last two miles being 
down hill. Having reached Tyndrum, where there is a 
large hotel, the roads improve immensely, though wet 
weather makes them rather heavy. 

There are several sharp little ups and downs to Grianlarich, 
where, should the rider have but a short time on his hands, 
and only be able to take a cursory glance at the Trossachs, 
he had better turn off to Ardlui, distant only seven miles ; 
thence he can take the steamboat to Inversnaid, and then ride 
the four miles to Stronachlachar, again taking the steamer 
across Loch Katrine. But as my intention was to stay for 
a short time at Callender, and from there to explore the 
Trossachs, I continued through Grianlarich to Luib Inn 
(twelve miles from Tyndrum), the surface being excellent 
and the road fairly level, and the lochs and the hills of 
Glen Dochart presenting many picturesque views on the 
way. 

From Luib Inn to Eillin on Loch Tay is six miles ; but 
if bound for the Trossachs, a turning to the right two 
miles before the village of Eillin is reached should be 
taken, which leads up over some very rough surface to 
Eillin Station. Thence, through Glen Ogle, there is a 
grand piece of riding, downhill all the way with a smooth 
surface, though loose stones are rather numerous. The 
steep acclivities of the surrounding hills, which become 
narrow as Lochearnhead (10^) is approached, form a 
striking picture. The hotel here is a very good one, and 
the scenery, comprising grand views of Loch Earn, is very 
fine. The blacksmith, a marvel in the local estimation, 
is not skilled in the art of bending cranksw 

The territory made classic by Sir Walter Scott in his 
poem, " The Lady of the Lake," is now entered. Leaving 
Lochearnhead, the road passes through Strathyre, where 
readers of the aforementioned will recollect that "the 
Cross of Fire " was carried with such haste by Angus. The 
surface of the road is remarkably good, being very hard 
and smooth, and the hills easy all the way to Callender (14), 
with the exception of a short and stiff lUtle bit just after 
"Eingshouse Inn" is passed. After plissing through a 
small village. Loch Lubnaig is reached ; and the road con- 
tinues along its eastern side quite close to the water's edge, 
the overhanging trees making a glorious ride, while the 
lofty Ben Ledi is seen rising from the o^osite shore. At 



the southern extremity of the lake is the Pass of Leny, 
formed by two lofty precipices, between which the river 
Leny flows round numerous curves to Callender, the 
foam caused by its rocky bed and the rushing waters 
making a pleasant sight. The village of Eilmahog is now 
passed, and for the remaining mile the road is very bumpy. 

Callender is not much of a place in itself, but the sur- 
roundings are extremely pretty, the hills above the village 
being clothed with pine trees, and the view of Ben Ledi 
from the bridge over the river ia very fine. The " Macgreggor 
Hotel," which is the C.T.C. house, can only be called fair. 
The Trossachs and Loch Eatrine are here within easy acce&s, 
the latter being only ten miles distant, and the " Trossachs 
Hotel," situated in the midst of the most charming scenery 
and only three-quarters of a mile froni Loch Eatrine, is a 
very good place to stay at ; it is expensive, as it enjoys the 
monopoly of the district, but everything is done in first-rate 
style. The road from Callender to the steamboat pier on 
Loch Eatrine (10 miles) is a poor one, from a bicycular 
point of view ; there are numerous sharp little hills, and 
the surface is of a very uneven character — something like 
macadam, and very different from the road to Ijochearnhead. 
The scenery is interesting all the way, especially at the 
Brigg of Turk, where there is a grand view up Glenfinlas ; 
the road at several points winds very close to Lochs Achray 
and Vennachar ; the proximity of the latter I am not likely 
to forget for some little time. An old gentleman from 
Nottingham, who was on a tricycling tour, would insist upon 
my trying his " Humber," notwithstanding my frequent 
protests ; the result was that owing to the greater stiffness 
in the steering, I found myself making straight for the 
lake, and only succeeded in pulling up within an inch of 
a steep rocky slope into the water. The old gentleman, 
as may be imagined, took at least ten minutes to recover. 

Along the northern bank of Loch Eatrine there is a road 
eight miles long to Glengyle, famous as having been tenanted 
at one period by the father of Rob Eoy, which winds, with 
many charming views, round the bays of the lake ; but it 
is quite unrideable, the pedestrian having to make use of 
stepping-stones to cross some of the streams which flow 
down the sides of Ben A'an. 

The whole of this lovely district, generally known as the 
Trossachs, is, for the combined grandeur and softness of its 
beauty, unsurpassed in Scotland, and being, as it is, so 
accessible either from Edinburgh or Glasgow, it should 
certainly be visited if circumstances permit. 

The distance from Callender to Edinburgh is 52 miles, 
all of which is easy going, and a very enjoyable day's 
ride can be made of it, allowing plenty of spare time 
for the various sights on the way, the most notable 
of which is Stirling Castle. Quitting Callender by a 
hard and shaky road, the Highlands are soon left behind, 
and when Doune (8) is reached the scenery bears a very 
different aspect. From the latter place to Stirling (16) 



Digitized by 



198 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



there is a fine broad road^ which a native informed me was the 
finest in Scotland, and so straight, he added, that you can 
see several miles ahead. The surface becomes very rough 
near Stirling, and as you approach the town the lofty rock 
on which the castle is built is seen on the right, and on the 
left is the Wallace Mont, a strange-looking erection. 
Passing through Stirling, the road to the left leads to 
Falkirk (28), its principal features being long and easy 
inclines with a good hard surface, generally rough near 
towns ; the scenery, being bare and open, is tame. 
Thence to Linlithgow (35) the road bears the same good 
character, with the exception of the hills being shorter 
and stiffer. The ruins of the old palace of Linlithgow on 
the banks of a fine sheet of water are worth visiting. The 
surface of the road for the remaining seventeen miles is 
simply perfection, and one can readily understand our 
President's enthusiastic opinion of it, when he remarked 
that it was the finest bit of road he had ever been on. 
After roughing it on the stony and loose roads of the 
Highlands, the sensation of ease and the pleasure of moving 
rapidly along a smooth surface can only be appreciated by 
those who have experienced it. The last two or three miles 
into Edinburgh are rough. 

This beautiful city, aptly termed " Modern Athens," is 
famous alike for the historical interest and the antiquity of 
the Old Town, and the imposing architecture and the 
picturesque views of the New ; but, as the sage Dr. Johnson 
remarked, it is "too well known to admit description." 
Siifiice to say there is enough to occupy the attention for 
several days, and no tour in Scotland would be complete 
without a visit to its splendid capital. 

Having been recommended to ride to Carlisle through 
Moffat, I set out for the latter place, which is 53 miles from 
Edinburgh, Peebles being the only place worth mentioning 
that is passed en route. The road for the first ten miles is 
decidedly hilly and the country bare and uninteresting ; 
when Penicuik is passed there is a rise of about four miles, 
after which it is down hill for the remaining eight miles to 
Peebles (22). The approach to the latter town is extremely 
pretty, as it is situated on the banks of the Tweed, and is 
almost surrounded by lofty hills. 

A somewhat indirect course has now to be pursued, the 
course of the river having to be followed, which flows west- 
ward to Lyne. About a mile from Peebles is Neidpath 
Castle, situated on a steep bank above the Tweed, which 
here winds between steep heights and wooded slopes, and 
affords some very pretty views. After Lyne is passed 
there is about four miles of hilly riding to Stobo. Here a 
comer can be cut by taking a turning to the left after 
passing through the village, the road which goes through 
Drummelzier, being a mile shorter than the one that is 
usually taken through Broughion ; it is a lovely ride, as it 
leads through narrow lanes and crosses and re-crosses the 
Tweed. The Moffat road is struck about two miles south 



of Broughton, whence the road is undulating and the 
surface excellent to the "Crook Inn." There are still 
sixteen miles to Moffat ; the road, said to be a grand one, 
is, I should say, a great fraud. No doubt it was good 
once, and the surface is still in parts like asphalte ; but it is 
strewn with small stones in some places, and in others is 
quite overgrown with grass. As it was rather dark and 
rain was falling when I traversed it, my bad impressions 
of it may be heightened, but I rejoiced greatly when 
the lights of Moffat became visible in the distance. The 
first ten miles from the " Crook Inn " are up hill as far 
as Tweedshaw's, and thence past the Devil's Beef Tub, 
where the|ground descends like a precipice from the side of 
the road to a great depth, it is down hill to Moffat. The 
" Annandale Arms," C.T.C., is recommended. 

The next stage to Carlisle is 45 miles, a very good road 
all the way. Two miles from Moffat is Beattock, and the 
road is undulating and the surface smooth to Lockerbie (16). 
It continues good through Ecclefechan (22) to Longtown 
(36) — the scenery being of a very tame character. The 
remaining nine miles to Carlisle is good, the surface being 
smooth, and nothing in the shape of a hill is met with. 
Here the Scotch Tour may be said to end, though after 
taking the train to Bradford I rode nearly all the way home 
via Wakefield, Doncaster, Newark, Grantham, Stamford, 
and the Great North Eoad. 

In conclusion, I need scarcely say the tour afforded me 
an immense'^amount of pleasure \ the bicycle enabling one 
to see, at a small cost and in a comparatively short time, 
more than most people can accomplish even with a very 
long holiday and an equally long purse. True, there are 
difficulties ; and the Scotch proverb is a true one which 
says, " Muckle pleasure, some pains." But the pains are 
instantly forgotten, while the pleasure lasts for ever, for 
the lovely scenes that so delighted you may be recalled 
over and over again, even to the smallest object — such an 
impression do they leave upon the mind. 

A. Lloyd. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
THE MEMBER'S BROTHER. 
Sir, — In reply to the letter of an "Ex-Member's-Brother," 
whose composition is easily recognisable as emanating from 
the constant pen of a ready writer, I must point out that, 
if I am correct in my surmise of his identity, he is not a 
case in point as he is a Racing Member, and therefore had 
the attraction of racing to encourage him to join. In my 
letter I distinctly stated I was far from wishing to prevent 
a member from bringing his brother to any Club Meeting 
in moderation, and yet an " Ex-Member s-Brother " writes, 
" I imagine * Wy vern * would not wish to exclude the 
Member's Brother from our Meets." Surely he cannot 
have read the letter he refers to. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



199 



I hope our Captain will excuse me when I say I think he 
has failed to grasp the very evident point of my letter, 
viz. : to attack the abuse of the privilege, and not the 
privilege itself, and I am confident that what I have written 
will not deter the ordinary Member s Brother from joining 
in the pleasure of our Club runs, for he will see at once 
that it is not he who is the subject of this correspondence. 

I cannot understand the argument of the impecuniosity 
that permits an expensive bicycle to be bought and the 
cost of a Club tea to be indulged in, but Vill not allow the 
Club subscription to be paid. 

Yours, etc., Wtvben. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
Sir, — I am all in favour of the visitors — ^member's 
brothers included — receiving every inducement to join our 
runs, but there is one privilege I should like to see con- 
fined exclusively to members, and that is the right of scoring 
attendances for the District whose Club runs they attend. 
The averages made out at the end of each season, if they mean 
anything, are intended to show the relative amount of 
interest taken by each of the Districts in their Saturday 
runs, but with visitors included they are no such criterion. 
Year after year this unreasonable custom is adhered to 
with a strange persistency by most of the District Captains ; 
and yet not altogether strange, for it has its origin in the 
desire to see the District under their charge appear as 
prosperous as possible. In this spirit one or two District 
Captains have gone as far as to turn some of their runs 
into picnics, and with the assistance of their lady friends 
to run up their average to a tremendous extent. 

When blue book statistics are turned into such a ridicu- 
lous farce as this, one may well ask where will matters end. 
Some energetic individual, promoted to the honours of the 
District Captaincy, may shortly appear with a brace of 
infants in a double perambulator in his anxiety to keep up 
his average. 

Surely it is time some hard and fast rule were drawn up, 
under which all the District Captains would be obliged to 
compute these averages not merely for their own delectation, 
but for the benefit and information of the Club generally. 

Yours, etc., ^ 



THE TWENTY MILES PROFESSIONAL 
CHAMPIONSHIP. 

This Championship was run at the Belgrave Grounds, 
Leicester on Saturday evening. At six o'clock, the adver- 
tised time for starting, fully 10,000 spectators had assembled 
on the track, and these numbers were considerably augmented 
during the race. When the signal was given Newton went 
to the front and assumed the lead for the first five miles, 
which were comparatively speaking slow. Lees now made 
the pace very hot, the seventh mile being especially fast, and 
reaching the ninth mile Newton was lapped. The half 



distance was ridden in 30 min. 2 sec. Lees still leading, the 
others being in the following order : — Howell, Wood, 
Weston, and Newton. Lees still continued to force the pace 
and led until the beginning of the last mile, when HoweU 
came with a tremendous burst of speed and led, quickly 
followed by Wood. The three continued to ride at an 
astonishingly fast pace, and no alteration took place until 
half a lap from home, when Wood wrested the lead from 
Howell, and continuing to gain, won by fifteen yards from 
the last-named, who defeated Lees by two yards. The last 
mile was ridden in the remarkably fast time of 2 min. 31| 
sec. Appended are times at each mile, and also the 
duration of each several one 



Distance. 

1 ... 

2 .... 
8 ... 
i ... 
6 ... 

6 ... 

7 ... 

8 ... 

9 ... 

10 ... 

11 .... 
12 

18 ... 

U .... 

16 ... 

16 ... 

17 ... 

18 ... 

19 ... 

20 ... 



2 56 
6 
9 8 
12 8 



Duration of 
each mile. 

M. 8. 



16 18 3 10 



18 24 8 



21 
24 
27 
80 



32 69 



86 
89 
42 
45 
48 
51 
54 
57 



1 
2 
5 
7 
7 
4 
7 
10 



69 41J 

{Abbreviated from the "Sportsman.") 



6 
2 43 
2 58 
2 56 
2 69 

2 57 

3 2 
3 1 
8 3 
8 2 
8 
2 57 
8 3 
8 8 
2 31} 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
Harry Wilson has again created a sensation by lowering 
the existing records from 26 to 38 miles at the fifty miles 
championship race of the Surrey Bicycle Club. In the first 
hour he covered 19 miles 505 yards ; no amateur, excepting 
H. L. Cortis, having previously ridden so far in that time. 
• •*••• 

At 38 miles he slowed down and took refreshment, 
finishing the fifty miles at his ease in 2 hr. 52 min. 55 sec. Had 
he been pressed he would doubtless have done much better. 
As it was, Vesey, his most formidable opponent, was two 

miles and a quarter behind him at the finish. 

««*•*• 

If the times and distances are correct the professionals, 
who hitherto have been beaten out of the field by amateurs, 
have suddenly come out most effectively, and put some of 
the amateur records into the shade. What with over 20^ 
miles in the hour, and the mile in 2 min. 31f sec, we may 
well wonder what will come next. 

The Fbont Whebl Hub. 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



LONDON TO EDINBURGH. 

On Saturday, the 14th of J uly, I left Beddington with afnend 
to ride to Edinburgh. We rode round London vid Eangston 
and Uxbridge, and stopped at Luton the first night ; then 
on through Bedford, Uppingham, Melton Mowbray, Not- 
tingham, Mansfield to Worksop, where we were stopped by 
the rain ; the roads, as far as Mansfield, were very good, 
and the next morning we rode to Leeds vid Doncaster 
(roads bad), and on Wednesday on to Nelson via Bradford, 
Halifax, and Burnley. We could not go more than six 
miles an hour on account of the roads, which I think 
were the worst I have ever bejQ on. Thursday we 
went on to Kendal througl^^ttl^f and Eirby Lonsdale 
(roads and scenery splendia). Oh Friday through the 
lake district to Keswick, where we spent Saturday and 
Sunday. On Saturday it poured with rain the whole day, 
so we had to stop in the hotel and grumble. On Monday 
we left at 9 o'clock, and rode vid Cockermouth, Carlisle, 
Longtown, and Hawick, to Selkirk (about 94 miles). The 
natives in Lancashire took me for a Salvation Army officer, 
and wanted to know if I was " going to glory." The next 
day we rode vid Peebles to Edinburgh ; the country from 
Carlisle to Edinburgh is very pretty, and the roads are 
grand. As the boat for London did not start until Friday 
evening, we had plenty of time to see Edinburgh, which 
we found well worth seeing. 

We had rather a rough passage home, and our machines 
turned red from the sea-water. We arrived at Gravesend 
at 8.30 on Sunday morning, and rode home from there. 
We always stayed at C.T.C. hotels, which were found very 
comfortable. Altogether we rode about 500 miles, and 
only had one really wet day. Riding time, nine days. 
Wind nearly all the way N. or N. W. 

August 15, 1883. DouOLAS MgRae. 



QUILLS. 

" AristoUe and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his qmlUi 
when he would attack, or defend himaelf, but Diosoorides affixmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. BEOWira. 

Those who saw the Zulu " tooling " his conveyance, con- 
sisting of a tricycle, with a donkey attached, through West 
Wickham on Saturday, all agree that the effect was as 
dazzling as it was refined. 

• ««««« 
There is no little satisfaction in finding the spare treadle 

pin one has carried for months come in useful at last. 

" If you like the pickles, try the sauce." On the same 
principle, those who approve of the " Rucker " bicycle will 
do well to peruse the exhaustive description of the ''Rucker" 
bicycle which appeared in the last issue of The Field. 

• •««•* 

The Editor has returned from his too brief holiday, 



looking pale and worn. He has passed through many 
terrible experiences, including several storms in a teacup, 
and has carried away two jibs, a forestay, bobstay^ and 
other mysterious ropes, besides being in collision, and 
aground, or rather a-mud, seven times. Who shall say 
the Norfolk Broads are destitute of excitement ? 

• • • • • • 

He reports that Yarmouth is given over unto the letting 
and hiring of sociables, it being not uncommon to see half- 
a-dozen in procession of an evening on the Drive, with 
lamps brightly lighted. Tricycles also abound of all ddes, 
so that the bicycle seems quite rare and obsolete. 
«•««•• 

It is with sorrow that I learn that our worthy member 
the energetic secretary of the Clapton Lacrosse Club is about 
to resign the post he has held with such credit to himself 
and such advantage to the Club. 

• ««••• 

Another of our Lacrosse members, a well-known attendant 
for some years at the Club meets, is about to set at naught 
the traditions of the N.E., having so far forgotten himself 
as to contemplate quitting the *' self-denying state " for 
which the District is so noted. 

• •«•*• 

If the controversy about the merits of the celebrated 
grotto, now known as ''Gruggen's remains," continues, 
it will be necessary for the Captain to organise a General 
Meet there, and to afterwards bring the question before a 
General Meeting of the Club. Perhaps photographs of the 
interestmg ruins in question might appear in the Gazbtte. 

POEOUPINB. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Radng 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing it any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride a« any meeting not Included in this list Is requested 
to communicate with liie^^tain. 

Sept. 1. — Lincoln B.C. Meeting. 

1.— St. Paul's A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 
8. — Nottingham B.C. Sports. 
15. — Surrey B.C. Autumn Meeting at Eennington 
Oval. 

29.— L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 
Oct. 27.— I* A.C., at Stamford Bridga 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 

AU contributions must be addressed to The Editor, L.B.a Gaaetta, 
85, Esstcheap, E.C. ' and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. Tbey must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desured, must be reoelTed not 
bter than Tuesday eyening. 



Printed for the Proprietors by Dablino & Sov, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastdheap, London, E.C.— August 80, 1888. 



Digitized by 




An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 27.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



September 6, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAOB 



The Member's Dog.. 

Noticee 

Glnb Meets 

Saturday Rons 



201 
202 
202 
202 



Correspondence 

Quills 

Racing Fixtures 

Notice to Correspondents 



PAQE 

204 
204 
204 
204 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Q-€kzette' 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



THE MEMBER'S DOG. 
Who has not read, with bated breath and shuddering 
frame, Captain Marryat's thrilling description of the hair- 
breadth escapes from imminent peril of Snarleyyow ; but 
surely the member's dog is more of a Dog Fiend than the 
celebrated character we have mentioned. If it is possible 
for a living creature to do so, he gets nearer than a hair's 
breadth to the advancing felloe, and appears to take an 
insane delight in scratching his continuation " against the 
indiarubber tyre of one's front wheel. To a nervous man, 
we can think of few things more trying than the company 
of his best friend's favourite animal, which, by a curious 
coincidence, is always of an extremely virtuous character, 
and never dreams of behaving otherwise than as a model 
dog, scorning to give way to the temptations of doing 
anything but follow, without deviation, the meandering 
tracks of his master. This coincidence is always fully 
explained and duly expatiated on before the start 
after we have humbly protested against the obnoxious 
presence, but almost immediately after the start is 
effected a still more curious coincidence follows with 
clockwork regularity ; this virtuous animal, for the first 
time in its mortal career, emulates our Father Adam, 
and falla And what makes it fedl ? Not the irresistible 



influence of lovely woman, but the detestable yelp of 
a — we had almost said another — miserable cur. Away 
it goes at twenty miles an hour, only, however, to stop dead 
in about twenty yards, within a foot or two of the chal- 
lenging quadruped, and directly under our front wheel. 
We clench our teeth, pull the break hard on, offer up a 
small thanksgiving that we are insured in the " Accidental/' 
and eventually shave the penultimate hairs of the personifi- 
cation of virtue. Our friend immediately remarks, "Oh ! don't 
mind Trimmer, he never gets run over, you should not 
bother yourself about him." But that is all very well ; 
our nerves have received a shock which they take a con- 
siderable time to get over, and we have not even the 
consolation of ''six pounds a week." For be it remem- 
bered that the never-ending seconds that proceed the 
actual contact with our Mother Earth are by far the 
most unpleasant of a very unpleasant period in one's 
short span of existence, and we consider that six pounds a 
week for actual wounds is too much, and should be appor- 
tioned half to wounds and half to nerves. It is needless, 
perhaps, to state that this trifling episode, this delightful 
meeting of two sympathetic spirits, descendants no doubt 
of the immortal " Snarleyyow," takes place every mile and 
a half at a moderate computation ; and, when possible, the 
locality chosen is on a sharp descent, such as a steep railway 
bridge, especially when the railway bridge is dotted over 
with a cart or two, of course on its wrong side, a few friendly 
navvies, and the never absent irrepressible school-boy, cap 
in hand. We could dilate at considerable length on this 



Digitized by 



Google 



202 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



inexhaustible Bubject, but our space will not permit, so we 
will conclude with a humble petition to the Committee to 
refuse to permit any dog, which is not a Club dog, to attend 
Club runs, and to enact that the Club dog, or its master 
for it, do pay the usual entrance fee and guinea subscrip- 
tion ; that aforesaid Club dog must be vouched for and 
elected as the laws have decided the human member 
shall be vouched for and elected, and that the fund so 
raised be devoted to soothing the nerves of dog-offended 
members. 

RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE. 

In accordance with the decision of the Committee there 
will be a race meeting at the above grounds on Saturday, 
22nd September, at 3.30 p.m. The events will be : — 

One Mile Club Handicap. Three prizes: gold, silver, 
and bronze medals. 

Twelve Miles District Scratch. Three prizes : bronze 
medals. 

Half-mile Club Scratch. Two prizes : gold and silver 
medals. 

220 yards Flat Race for boys under 16 years of age, 
introduced by members. Three prizes. 

Entry fee for each of the first three events 2s. 6d, and 
for the Flat Race, Is.. The Twelve Miles District Race 



must be ridden on band fide roadsters ; only those members 
allowed to compete who have attended at least eight meets 
throughout the season. Each District to have three starters. 
Entries close on 17th September. A member of the Com- 
mittee has kindly offered the first prize for the flat race. 

Members will be admitted free on production of Club 
Badge. No tickets will be issued ; the admission to the 
outside world will be by payment of Is. at the gates. 

It will be seen from the foregoing that an entirely new 
departure is being undertaken. The afternoon is intended 
to be a purely Club affair, and every member taking part in 
the races or turning up on the ground will make it more so. 
It will serve all the purposes of a General Meet, without the 
bother of haviug to get to the destination by riding all round 
London, and will have one great attraction which the said 
General Meet is void of, viz., the presence of fellow-members' 
sisters, cousins, and aunts. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

BOYS' RACE. 
I trust that members are arranging for all their brothers 
under 16 to enter for the flat race, and I hope it is under- 
stood, though the official notice does not so state, that 
this is a handicap, the handicap, of course, being chiefly 
by age. 

Theo. Godlee, Captain's Substitute. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


September 8. 


Lea Bridge Bd. 3.30, 
and Sybom's Comer 
3.45, for Upmih- 
1 BTXB. Meet S.E., 
Blackheath Div. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Dios- 
WBLL Hill. 


Sayemake Cottage, 
MUl HiU Boad, 
Acton, 3.45, for 
WoKiKO. " May- 
bury Inn." Meet 
S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.16, forWoKiNO. 
" Maybnry Inn." 
Meet W. 


4.15, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
East Grinbtkad. 


"Hare and BiUet," 
8.45, for TTpiok- 
BTEB. Meet N.E. 


September 16. 


1 Lea Bridge Rd. 3.30, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
i 3.45, for Eppiko, 


3.45, ''Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Hab- 
Row. Meet W. 
and S.W. 


3. 45, SavemakeCot- 
tage,MiUHiUBd., 
Acton, for Hab- 
BOW. Meet N.W. 
and S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Habbow. 
Meet N.W. and W. 


4.30, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Cbawlet. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 3.45, for 
Cbawubt. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 



N.E. DiOTBIOT. 

Ist September. The weather was bad, and got worse ; 
but five is a poor attendance. Four of them left the 
Comer about the usual hour, and proceeded by the very 
usual route of the level crossing, and Chigwell to Passing- 
ford Bridge, encountering by the way a herd of wild 
cattle which threatened them dissolution, but fortunately 
abstained ; the wind was supposed to be behind them — it 
wasn't ; but that is a minor matter. The pace was, as usual, 
the best pace for the slowest rider, but the slowest rider rose 
to the occasion and wasn't identified much. Very little rain 
interfered before Navestock was reached. Tea was served 
in a sort of cupboard, and included, to the astonishment 



of the party, «An«i|W— quite a new thing in Club teas. 
Baldwin, who rode down hard and late, turned up just as 
the teapot was empty, but an early start was effected about 
7.30 in pitch dark and rain. A somewhat medium pace, 
as the leaders could not see the way, was adopted on the 
way home; Baldwin turning down to Chigwell Lane Sta- 
tion, and it is opined crossing the bows of, and delaying the 
District at the level crossing. Walthamstow was safely 
reached about 9.30. Present : Baldwin, S. G Hough, 
Kelsey, Lloyd, and Thbo. Godlbb, District Captain. 

N.W. DlSTMOT. 

Two members met at " Jack Straw's Castle " for the run 
to Elstree, and were undecided as to whether they should 
carry out the run or not ; but the expectation of meeting 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



203 



a large contingent of the W. proved too strong, and they 
started amidst adverse elements. A stoppage was made at 
Hendon Station for reinforcements, but all to no purpose, 
and the District rode via Brockley Hill (which is now in a 
very good condition) and Buahey Heath, reaching Elstree a 
little before six. A solitary W. man, in the person of 
Dr. Langmore, was found just starting back, so that our 
fond hopes of a large company were rudely dashed to the 
ground. It did not appear good enough to stop to tea as 
the weather was so threatening, although Elgood and a 
friend just then came up and decided to stop ; so leaving 
these two we started back against a gale and rain, reaching 
home about 7.30. I have heard since that no other 
member attended the run. Our D.C. was unavoidably 
absent through illness (?). Present: Elgood, H. B. Spencer, 
one visitor, and E. S. Pbiob. 

Another Account 
I started with a friend about 3.30, and rode along the 
Pinchley Road as far as Whetstone (no one turning up at 
Tally Ho 1 Comer), where we turned oflF to Totteridge, and 
rode through the lanes to Edgeware Bury, arriving at 
Elstree at 6 p.m. Here we met Dr. Langmore (W.), Price, 
and Spencer, none of whom, however, waited for tea. After 
a fairly-served meal at the "Red lion" we started for 
home, but were thoroughly drenched before riding half a 
mile. Happily the distance was short, and we got home at 
nine o'clock, apparently none the worse for our ducking. 

F. M. Elgood. 



W. District. 

1st September. The run to Elstree was anything but 
a success, for our only representative was Langmore, who 
rode out direct, he meeting a contingent of the N.W. 
there. However, rain threatening, it was decided to return 
without the usual tea-fight, so that anyone who went 
down late had the felicity to find no one there. Being 
delayed from starting unavoidably at the usual time, I 
endeavoured to make up for lost time by starting at 5.30, 
but rain descending before reaching Stanmore, I was forced 
to return home, though much against my will. Present : 
J. W. Langmore. H. C. Pigott, District Captain. 

P.S. — As next Saturday is the run to Woking Heath to 
meet the S.W., I hope as many as possible will join ua 
A start will be made at 3.45 punctually, and the route 
followed will be by Kingston, Esher, Gobham, Byfleet, to 
the "Maybury Inn," which is situate in middle of the 
Byfleet Common, two miles from Woking and five from 
Ripley, amid beautiful surroundings and extensive views. 
I am confident that all who pay this charming spot a visit 
will be amply repaid for the trouble of getting there. 

N.B.— No grotto. 

S.E. District. 
There was rather a poor muster at Addington on Saturday 
for the paperchase run to Downe. The threatening aspect 



of the weather in the afternoon no doubt prevented the 
pack from turning out in numbers proportionate to the 
occasion. The village clock pointed to twenty minutes 
after five, when the two hares, J. C. Oswald and the D.C, 
started down through the village before the wind towards 
Wickham. A sharp turn to the right at the cross roads 
took them up past Wickham Court into an intricacy of cross 
country lanes, more or less overgrown with grass, and 
sprinkled with stones. What with numerous false tracks, 
even the most sagacious hounds were unable to keep on the 
scent, and consoled themselves with a little cross country 
work, each on his own account. Two of the pack having 
made up their minds beforehand as to the way the hares 
ought to go, found themselves in the anomalous position 
of arriving before them. It is hardly necessary to add that 
their attentions had been exclusively confined to the direct 
road, and of course the D.C, on hearing that they had 
done fast time, booked them for the Stamford Bridge event 
forth with. Soon after our arrival the rain, which had been 
coming down in fits and starts during the run, began to 
show that it was really in earnest, and we were not sorry 
to find food and shelter at the *' George Inn." The wind 
howled outside, and the rain rattled against the window 
pane, so we put ofi* the evil moment as long as possible, but 
eventually made a start about half-past eight. As most of 
the party were, to a certain degree, blown home, the rain 
did not signify so much, but the sole representative of the 
Sevenoaks contingent must have had, it is to be feared, 
rather a bad time of it. Present : S. Herbert, J. C. Oswald, 
W. C. Oswald, F. B. Smith, S. P. Smith, Whealler,' F. H. 
Williams, and R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



Next Saturday the Croydon Division will leave the Fire 
Station at 4.30 for East Grinstead, and as a great many of 
the Crawley candidates intend coming, there is every chance 
of a good meet. R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



S.W. District. 
The uncertain and threatening appearance of the weather 
seems to have deterred the few remaining well-disposed 
members of the District from meeting at Kingston Station 
on Saturday last. To avoid the chance of once more 
becoming the victim of circumstances and having to carry 
out the run alone, in the painful event of members being 
either away for their holidays or for other causes unable to 
lend their much-coveted assistance, I had secured a com- 
panion by impressing a brother into the District service, 
mounted upon a borrowed plume or hired tricycle of very 
indifferent pattern, and one which it was found could only 
be driven at much personal inconvenience ; we therefore, 
for obvious reasons, generously withhold the name of the 
maker ! After waiting at Kingston until 4.45 p.m. and no 
member then appearing, we proceeded over Kingston Bridge 
in the direction of Sunbury. Upon nearing Hampton 



Digitized by 



204 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



Court there were distant strains of music issuing from these 
well-known pleasure grounds which aroused our curiosity, 
and seemed to claim attention. Upon closer inspection the 
band proved to be that of the " Queen's Own Hussars," 
engaged in rendering several Scotch selections in a very 
pleasing and exceptional manner ; a habit which, it was 
understood, was of weekly occurrence ! At the termination 
of this interesting entertainment the outlook appeared any- 
thing but promising, and as rain began to seriously threaten 
the intended district expedition, Sunbury was finally aban- 
doned, and the return journey commenced, by Bushey 
Park. Present : G. H. Qruggen (visitor) and 

B. M. Gbuogek, District Captain. 

The run next Saturday is to the " Maybury Inn," Woking, 
when I hope that we shall have a good muster to meet the 
West. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
ATTENDANCE. 
Sib,— It may be a comfort to your correspondent 
to know that the whole question to which he refers has 
been under the consideration of the Committee, and has 
been by them referred to a Sub-Committee, who are 
expected shortly to make their report, in doing which they 
will no doubt take his remarks into consideration. It is, 
however, refreshing to find anyone so completely satisfied 
as to what the averages in question are " intended to show," 
and who boldly states his opinion, though he admits he is 
entirely opposed to the views of "most of the District 
Captains," who might be supposed to have some experience 
and, for that matter, to the views of Committees for some 
years past. — ^Yours, etc.. One op the Sub-Commttteb. 

To the Editor qfthe London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
N.B. DISTRICT. 
Sib, — It may be an interesting speculation who I shall 
select for the District Kace, but I am bound to say that if 
only three men send in their names it is easy. I wish those 
who are willing to ride would let me know. I hear of them, 
but not from them. Theo. Qodlbe, District Captain. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette, 
RACE MEETING, 
gut, — As I find myself clothed with a temporary autho- 
rity, I think it right to point out to members that, having 
regard to the strict privacy of the occasion, there is no need 
for a formal entry form for this meeting, but that a letter to 
the Secretary, with the half crowns, will be amply sufficient. 

I also wish to urge on members the importance of entering 
for the races ; they need not be afraid of unreasonably short 
starts, as the Race Committee will be sure to know them. 

If the D.C.'s will make a point of collecting entries next 
Saturday, they might save members some trouble. — Yours, 
Theo. Godlee, Captain's Substitute. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his quQlB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioecorides affirmeth it a 
point of foUy to believe it."— Sir T. BfiOWNE. 

I am told that the S.E. D.C. is so anxious to beat his 
predecessor's record, that he scored the " gypsy's donkey " 
as " one visitor " at the Riverhead run. 

It is not without a little chuckling that those membexs 
who opposed the change of locality of the Annual Race 
Meeting, read in the last issue the little paragraph headed 
"Stamford Bridge Guarantee Fund." At any rate the 
majority have some small punishment, though, alas, not 
nearly commensurate with their evil-doing, for the disastrous 
policy they induced the Club to adopt, and which they now 
regret so much. 

Important to South-Easters. — The National Cyclists 

Union have made a successful application to the Borough 

Engineer of Crbydon to have the ventilator covers in 

Auckland Road shifted round so as to be no longer 

dangerous to cyclists. 

♦ • • ♦ • • 

A report has reached me from Zermatt how that Beck 

has been doing all the big things there in the way of 

ascents, including the Matterhorn, Weisshorn, etc. 

D.C. to member of his District and quondam follower : — 
" Well, how is it I never see you out at the runs now ? " 
Q.F. : (confidentially) "Why, don't you see I'm giving up 
riding and going in for ladies' society ! " 

I hear that all the District teams will be seen on the 
Crawley Road on 15th inst. 

H. Wilson will attempt to cut the twenty miles record 
at the Surbiton track on Saturday next. 

PoRCUPnTB. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
withoi^t permfosion from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been Biibmitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this Ust is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Sept. 8. — Nottingham B.C. Sports. 

15. — Surrey B.C. Autumn Meeting at Kennington 
Oval. 

29 — L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 
Oct. 27.— L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 

The author of " An Aimless Ramble " is requested to send 
his name to the Editor, in order to comply with the rules 
of the Gazette. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C.," and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Dablino & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85^ Eastcheap, London, E.C.— September 6, 1888. 



Digitized by 



An Official Recobd of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VI. No. 28.] ™™"'^?iATi,,^l^Tra^^ September 13, 1883. 



OONT 

PAGE 



The Codification of Amateur Law 205 

Notices 206 

Saturday Ruiui 206 

Club Meets 207 

A Trip to Devonshire 208 

An Aimless Ramble 209 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for " Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on TaesdayB. 



THE CODIFICATION OF AMATEUR LAW. 
Althoagh every different class of sport must of necessity 
have certain rales to meet the special needs arising in its 
own particular case, yet it is quite possible to frame a code 
of laws which, such differences excepted, jsball be applicable 
to all amateur sport alike. To take an example, it is neces- 
sary for every sport to have a definition of an amateur, and 
surely a single definition would answer the purposes of all 
classes of athletes. At present we have at least six associa- 
tions, namely, the Amateur Rowing Association, the 
Amateur Athletic Association, the National Cyclists' Union, 
the Swimming Association of Great Britain, the Amateur 
Boxing Association, and the National Skating Association, all 
of which differ more or less in their definitions of an amateur. 
With regard to the first named of these, a very great and 
at present apparently insuperable obstacle exists to its 
definition being rendered similar to those of most of the 
other associations ; but our present purpose is not to enter 
into a discussion on this point, but to glance at the possi- 
bility of a common set of rules for at least the A. A.A., the 
N.C.U., and the N.Sw.A. The differences between the 
codes of these associations other than those arising from 
the exigencies of the particular sport, consist chiefly in the 
wording of the various rules, the only important differences 
being that the A.A.A. prohibit their members from com- 



BNTS. 

FAOB 



Jottings on the Midlands 210* 

All Round the Wheel 210 

Correspondence 211 

Quilla 212 

Racing Fixtures 212 

Notice to Correspondents 212 



peting at sports not advertised to be held under their 
rules, and also forbid the introduction of professional 
contests at amateur athletic meetings ; whilst the N.C.U. 
reserve to themselves the right of authorising Amateur and 
Professional Races. To show the inconvenience of these 
differences, let us take the following case. Sports are held 
at which there is a professional race, and a competitor 
enters for a running and a bicycle race and starts in both ; 
the A.A.A., in accordance with their rules, suspend him, 
and although ho has broken no regulation of the N.C.U., 
they are bound by agreement with the former association 
to recognise this suspension. Obviously there is an absurdity 
here, and the sooner it is rectified the better. Any com- 
plication of rules ought to be avoided, as at county meetings, 
competitors, who perhaps only race once a year, cannot be 
expected to be up in all the niceties of amateur law as metro- 
politan athletes, who live, so to speak, in an atmosphere 
of it, are supposed to be. A simple and concise code of rules 
is what is needed, and the sooner our legislators turn their 
attention to this subject the better it will be for athletics in 
general. The cordial relations at present existing between 
the three Associations ought to render the task an easy one, 
and the approaching dead season of the year suggests that 
it is a convenient time in which to take up the subject. 

COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee, held at the " City Arms," 
on Monday 10th instant, the resignations of Messrs. J. T. 
Johns, William Johns, and C. A. Smith were accepted. 



Digitized by VjlJ^^lC 



206 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



It was decided to hold the Annual Dinner at the 
St. James's Hall Restaurant on Wednesday 2lBt November, 
provided that day was disengaged. 

E. S. Pbicb, Hon. Sec. 



RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE. 
Members are once more reminded of this Club Social, which 
takes place on Saturday, 22nd September. Besides the — 
One Mile Club Handicap, 
Half-Mile Scratch, 
Twelve Miles District Scratch (roadsters), and 
220 yards Flat Race for Boys, 
there will be a Lacrosse Match, and the final tie of the 
Tennis Tournament, which will vary the monotony of all 
Bicycle events. 

It has been thought advisable to issue tickets, and they 
can be obtained from me, or members of the Committee, at 
the price of Is. 

Members themselves will be admitted on production 
of Club Badge. 

Entries can be sent to me not later than Tuesday, 
18th instant. Entry fee 2s. 6d. each Bicycle event, and 
Is. for the Flat Race. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

BOYS' RACE. 
I trust that members are arranging for all their brothers 
under 16 to enter for the flat race, and I hope it is under- 
stood, though the official notice does not so state, that 
this is a handicap, the handicap, of course, being chiefly 
by age. 

Theo. Gobleb, Captain's Substitute. 
NOTICE. 

Competitors can practise on the Stamford Bridge Grounds 
on Thursday, 20th instant, except between the hours of 
6.0 and 7.30 p.m. Tickets of admission can be obtained 
of me. E, S. Pbice, Hon. Sec. 

STAMFORD BRIDGE GUARANTEE FUND. 
Members who put their names down for the above fund 
are requested to send their subscriptions (10s. each) to 
Stephen P. Smith, 9, Morden Road, Blackheath. If any 
other member would like to subscribe, his donation will 
be thankfully received, and if mora than the sum required 
is subscribed a return will be made pro raid, 

SATURDAY RUNS. 

N.R DlSTEICT. 

Sept. 8th. A very wet morning has a tendency to turn 
men's minds to other pursuits, however fine an afternoon it 
may ultimately be, and this may account for onlpr four 
members leaving Syborn's Comer. They were joined for 
about a mile by T. G. Nevill, who, we fear, hardly scored 



an attendance, as he was not actually propelling himself. 
Going round by Whip's Cross to try to meet someone, the 
Redbridge road was reached by way of Snaresbrook, then, 
proceeding by the most recent invention to Hog Hill, 
Romford was taken in the flank, and a sharp turn back 
by the watersplash brought the party to Beacontree 
Heath in time to meet S. P. Smith on his way to leave it. 
Thus reinforced by the Blackheath Division, the District 
proceeded to its destination, the "Bell" at Upminster. 
Here Baldwin, who had ridden down early, had very kindly 
ordered tea, and we were soon at work, and by the same 
reason ready for an early start. This was effected after an 
anxious wait in hopes of seeing the Treasurer, who was 
reported to be coming. The return route was taken by the 
Romford road ; Baldwin, who had tried it, perhaps wisely, 
took the train at Romford. Certainly the road was in 
parts at its very worst, even excepting the market carts, 
which did not add to the comfort. At Ilford the party 
separated. Smith leaving for Woolwich, *and the balance 
going by Redbridge, and comfortably and punctually 
reaching home. Present : Baldwin, Eelsey, Lloyd, E. D. 
Sewell, and Theo. Godlee, District Captain. 



N.W. DiSTEIOT. 

Sept. 8th. Three members turned up at Tally Ho! 
at the appointed time, and after waiting twenty minutes 
for the D.C., who did not arrive, they started down the 
North road against a stiff breeze. As we were late we did 
not think it good enough to go as far as Digswell Hill, the 
appointed destination, so at the sixteenth milestone turned 
to the right and made for Northaw, where a very plain tea 
was obtained. A start was made at eight o'clock and all 
went well to Barnet, where my handle>bar suddenly came 
in half. However, by walking the hills, this did not 
prevent my riding home. Silk overtook us the London side 
of Barnet, having been down the North road to look for us. 
Present : Hindley, Jackson, W. Silk, Jun., and 

W. J. Williams, for District Captain. 



Another Account. 
Being unable to arrive at Tally Ho ! Comer before five 
o'clock, I found the attendance very scarce ; so proceeded 
alone as far as Barnet, where, feeling unequal to riding 
any further, returned home meditating on the energy of 
our "District." 



Next Saturday the run is to Harrow — "Jack Straw's 
Castle," 3.45. A. H. LowN, District Captain. 



W. District. 

Sept. 8th. It was with mingled feelings of disappoint- 
ment and vengeance that I turned my back upon Savernake 
Cottage last Saturday punctually at four o'clock. Need I 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



207 



add that I was alone, for not one member out of the whole 
district turned out for one of the prettiest runs of the 
season. However, I rode on with a hopeful feeling that I 
should only have the eight miles to Kingston to ride in 
solitude, for I had calculated upon seeing a goodly company 
of S.W., headed by their archseologian. Alas ! what is the 
use of anticipating such pleasures in the inidst of so much 
uncertainty. The only visible being in the garb of a cyclist 
was E. W. Lumley, whom I had invited to attend as a 
visitor, and to accompany us on our run. I could only make a 
few improbable excuses to him for the absence of the two 
districts ; but what could excuses do to atone for the 59 
who were absent out of a possible 60 ^members. I would 
remind the members of the West of the extreme pleasure it 
affords me to carry out a run in solitude, whereas I had 
anticipated pleasant companionship. I rode from Kingston 
to Esher, Hersham, BytLeet, and on to Woking, where I 
arrived at six o'clock. After waiting half an hour for tea, 
hoping someone would come on, during which time I 
wandered over the heath, I sat dowi^ to a solitary and 
frugal repast. At seven o'clock I started for Bipley (5 miles), 
at which place I stayed until ten o'clock, after a pleasant 
and select musical evening. The run from Ripley was 
pleasant as usual, and I arrived at my destination in safety 
before midnight 

On Saturday next the run is to Harrow to meet the 
S.W. and N.W., but there is also a counter attraction in 
the S.E., where great interest is being taken in the Crawley 
run, and all will be welcomed — who care to go — by 
the S.E. D.C. An unexpected visit into Warwickshire will, 
I fear, prevent me from attending the run. 

Harold G. Piqott, District Captain* 



S.E. District. 
There ought to be little doubt that a fine day in early 
autumn is the day above all others for a ride. This opinion 
was not, however, largely shared by members of the S.E. on 



Saturday. Those who managed to tear themselves away 
from home and domestic pursuits, were rewarded by having 
one of the pleasantest runs of the season. Five men left 
the Fire Station at half-past four for East Grinstead. 
Crowds of tricycles were the chief feature along the road to 
Caterham. This was owing to the Fifty Miles Tricycle Road 
Championship, which was in course of being brought off 
along the road through Godstone, Westerham to Ightham and 
back. Marriott seemed to have just arrived, and we were 
informed by Hillier that he was the winner. Some of our 
party elected to go by Tilburstow, which was surmounted 
by Sidney Herbert — to judge from a distant view — in 
excellent form. Church and Williams were waiting 
for us at the "Railway Arms," and shortly after J. C. 
Oswald, who had been exploring in the Turner's Hill 
country, came in and made up our total to nine. We were 
sorry to miss Wyndham and the O'Reilly, as well as one or 
two other habituSs at this run, from the festive board ; still 
it did not prevent those who were present from enjoying an 
excellent repast. At eight o'clock the party showed signs 
of breaking up, and shortly after McRae, Williams, and 
the D.C, anxious to make the most of a young moon, left 
on their way to Brighton. Present : Church, S. Herbert, 
McRae, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, F. B. Smith, F. H. 
Williams, J. B. Young, and 

R. G. Fbaitgis, District Captain. 



CRAWLEY. 

The Croydon Division will leave the Fire Station, 
St. Katharine Street, at 4.30 next Saturday, and meet 
the Blackheath men (who will come by 3.30 train from 
Ladywell) at the junction of the Brighton and East 
Grinstead at 4.50. The start will take place at five o'clock 
punctually. Tea at the " George Inn," Crawley, at 6.30. 
As this is the last run but one of this season, I hope all 
who can, possibly, will be present. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Date. 


N.B. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


September 15. 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
and Sybom's Comer 
8.45, for Effing, 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle" for Hab- 
BOW. Meet W. 
and S.W.^ 


8.45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MUl HiU Rd., 
Acton, for Hab- 
Bow. Meet N.W. 
and S.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Habbow. 
Meet N.W. and W. 


4.80» Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 
Cbawlbt. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 8.45, for 
Cbawlkt. 


September 22 —RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BBIDGE. 


September 29. 

A 


Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
and Sybom's Corner 
8.45| for Abbidoe. 


8.45, "Jack Straw's 
Castle," for Mill 
Hill. 


8. 45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, Mm HiU 
Road, Acton, for 

LSATHIBHXAD. 

MeetS.W. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Leathrb- 
Hbad. Meet W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

(xODSTONB. 


Old Lewisham 
Church, 8.80, for 
Godstonb. 



Google 



Digitized by 



208 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



A TRIP TO DEVONSHIRE. 
I had intended riding down to Devonshire on my bicycle, 
but at the last moment a friend of mine was taken with the 
sudden desire to make a trip on a double tricycle, and so 
persuaded me to accompany him. Starting on Monday 
afternoon, July 30, we made our way through Hounslow 
and Staines, being delayed by numerous showers of rain, 
to the " Catherine Wheel " at Ilgham. After being well 
entertained here, we rode up the long hill out of the town, 
and after a distance of 3^ miles reached the " Wheatsheaf 
Hotel," Virginia Water (24 J), where we arrived shortly before 
ten p.m. The servants of the establishment had evidently 
been celebrating the close of the London season, and con- 
sequent cessation of their labours, by indulging not wisely 
but too well, and we were several times alarmed during the 
night by unwonted thuds as of beer barrels falling down 
stairs, which we subsequently ascertained were nothing 
more than the uncertain steps of unsteady "roysterers" 
laboriously making their way to their respective chambers. 
Rising early from our uneasy couches, after breakfast and 
a look at the pretty lake we proceeded through Bagshot 
and Blackwater to the Hartford Bridge Flats, where we 
encountered a tremendous storm of rain, which consider- 
ably delayed us and gave us a thorough "ducking," there 
being no cover, except furze bushes, for several miles. 
The roads from this point were such heavy going, although 
in the ordinary way I should imagine the surface to be 
perfect, that we were not sorry to put up for the night at 
a place called Overton (56^) about eight miles beyond 
Basingstoke. Here we made a great reputation for ourselves 
in consequence of the dashing pace we came down the steep 
and long hill into the town, feeling the utmost confidence 
in our mount. Sundry remarks as to our machines being 
the best sort of thing to travel on, came to our ears and 
were received with dignity on our parts, as we chuckled to 
ourselves that they might have altered their opinion had 
they seen us slowly pushing up some of the long and heavy 
hilk we encountered earlier in the day. 

After a bathe in the brook, which reminded me of the 
one at Chenies, except that it was not quite so deep, we 
rode to Andover (66i) to breakfast, during which we took 
the opportunity of having the tyre of one of the driving 
wheels cemented on. After much delay we made a start 
and reached Ludgershall (74), where care should be taken 
to turn to the right in the middle of the town. From here, 
the road lies along the border of Salisbury Plain, and with 
a strong head wind a more monotous and uninteresting ten 
miles cannot be imagined. However, on reaching Upavon, 
the road and country improve and we kept up a fair jxace 
to Devizes. Here we were well looked after at the " Castle 
Inn," and after dinner and a look about town, we rode to 
Melksham (lOOj) a distance of seven miles. The road 
being in good condition and with favourable gradients, we 
did our fastest time, accomplishing the distance in just over 



the half hour. The people at the " King's Arms " were 
very attentive with the exception of the ostler, who told us 
he had never cleaned a tricycle and was'nt going to do so 
now ; " however, we soon got a pail of water and showed 
him the way, much to that worthy's disgust. The following 
morning we were treated to a splendid swim in the river 
Avon and then started for Box, where we breakfasted with 
some friends, enjoying a long and gradual run down into 
the pretty little village. We arrived at Bath (112^) about 
11.30, and spent some time in looking around the Abbey 
and the old baths, which have just been brought to light by 
recent excavations. 

We had been recommended to take the lower Bristol 
road out of Bath instead of going direct to Wells through 
Radstock, as the roads and country are far more interesting. 
This we endeavoured to do, but took a wrong turning, and 
rode down a regular precipice which I should have been 
very sorry to have encountered so suddenly on anything 
but a double tricycle. Walking up a corresponding hill, we 
reached Gorston and the right road again, but the surface 
did not improve much, and the country began to get very 
wild. At High Littleton we walked down the steep hill, 
which comes very unexpectedly into the village at the 
bottom. The tower of the church at Chewton Mendip is a 
fine example of Somersetshire towers, and should not be 
missed by those interested in architecture. 

We now commenced to ascend the north side of the 
Mendips, and had it not been for two delightfully refreshing 
springs of the clearest and coolest water, I think in the hot 
sun we should have felt it rather more tedious than we did. 
However, the country was very pretty, and the panorama 
which was presented to us above Wells was such as is rarely 
seen. The country is visible for miles round, and we stood 
some minutes on the top of the hill lost in admiration. 
There is a B.U. danger board on the hill into the city, 
which is extremely steep, and obliged us to walk. Here 
(132i) we stopped the night at the "Star" Hotel (C.T.C.), 
which deserves every recommendation. We stayed until 
1 o'clock the next day, looking over the magnificent 
cathedral and chapter-house, the vicar's close, bishop's 
palace, etc., and after the purchase of a few photographs, 
regretfully left this pretty place to wend our way to Glaston- 
bury (137f), scarcely less interesting and historical. We 
spent some time there surveying the ruined abbey, the 
abbot's bam and kitchen, and then returned to luuch at 
the " Old George Inn," an extremely picturesque house, 
built originally for a hospital for the pilgrims who came to 
the abbey, when there was not room to lodge them in the 
abbey buildings. 

From here to Bridgewater (153^) the road is fairly level 
and of a very pretty character running along the top of the 
Polden HiUs. There is rather a steep hill to descend about 
two miles before Bridgewater, where we very nearly ran 
over a duck! The road to Taunton (164iJ ^ N. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



209 



Petherton and Bath Pool is a deep red colour and has a 
very good sarface, so that we were soon comfortably 
quartered in "Clarke's Hotel" (C.T.C.) in front of the^ 
market place, which we found very satisfactory. The next 
day (Saturday) was market day and we amused ourselves 
until noon with watching the eccentricities of the cattle 
and pigs. The church of St Mary should on no account 
be missed as it has a splendid tower and a very fine double- 
aisled interior altogether, it is about the b&st parish 
church in Somerset. The road to Wellington (171 is 
mostly up hill. About a couple of miles oflF the road, there 
is an obelisk erected to the memory of the Iron Duke, who 
took his title from this place, but it can be plainly seen 
from the main road. There is no great interest in the 
remaining part of the road to Exeter (19d|) vid CoUumpton, 
which is rather up and down. At Broad Clist we made a 
deviation of a mile to look up some cider works we had 
heard a great deal about, and were disgusted to find no one 
there to give us a sample, for we were a little thirsty. 

At the " Bude Hotel," Exeter, we were very comfortable, 
and after service at the Cathedral the next morning we 
rode through some of the most hilly and picturesque 
country we had seen, and reached our destination (Paignton 
228) by way of Exminster, Dawlish, 'Deignmouth (212), 
Newton Abbot and Torquay (225). For some miles be- 
tween Kenton and Teignmouth the road runs close by the 
estuary of the river Exe and along the coast ; and the sea 
breezes and pretty views rendered this not the least 
delightful part of our ride. From Teignmouth, the direct 
road through Shalden is so rough and hilly that we were 
recommended to go round by Newton Abbot, a detour of 
some six miles. 

We stayed at none but C.T.C. hotels and were very well 
satisfied with them on the whole, especially at Wells and 
Exeter. The roads we encountered were very fair, though 
rather rough in some parts of Devon and Somerset. There 
can be no doubt that for those who wish to ride quietly 
small distances, there is nothing like a double tricycle for 
touring (although I myself should be the very last to forsake 
the two wheeler), and the advantage that they can with 
perfect security and comfort be ridden down hills which 
would be dangerous to any bicyclist who did not know them, 
is one to be considered. The only hills we found it 
advisable to dismount in descending were those into High 
Littleton, Wells and Teignmouth, and no doubt we could 
have ridden these with safety had either of us been better 
acquainted with our steed ; as it was, my companion had 
never been on a bicycle or tricycle in his life, and the latter 
was also a totally new experience to Juggins Junb. 



AN AIMLESS BAMBLE. 
The deluge of foreign tours which has lately swept 
through the pages of the Gazette, has induced me to send 
up a few notes on a six day's ride through England, from 



which I have just returned, in order that posterity may not 
be led to believe that the whole of the L.B.C. are unable to 
find any enjoyment in the roads and scenery of their native 
land. 

I left South Norwood on Friday, August 3rd, at 8.30, a 
later hour than the one at which I usually begin my first 
day's ride, but as I was going alone, I thought I might as 
well take things easily. My intention was to ride " some- 
where up North," a phrase which greatly took my fancy by its 
delightful vagueness, and the unlimited option it left me of 
turning back when I pleased. I had a hazy sort of idea that 
I might turn up at the Lakes if wind and weather proved 
favourable ; but I was far from having any fixed plan, and 
the sole determination to which I clung was to do a new 
road wherever it was possible. My luggage was contained 
in a M.I. P., which, with judicious stuffing, held a complete 
change of clothes with the exception of a coat,. all articles 
necessary for. the night, a map or two, and a variety of 
" smokements " — an item quite as necessary to the full 
enjoyment of a tour as any of the former ones. I found, 
however; that the bulk of the bag considerably interfered 
with mounting, inasmuch as I could only just grasp my 
handles, which are slightly kinked forward ; and even when 
I held them with the tips of my fingers after the manner 
of a billiard cue, the bag bounded about on my chest in a 
way rather suggestive of the after efiects of a heavy supper. 

I had to dismount twice on the way to London, owing 
to the erratic course pursued by two butchers in their carts 
— one article of whose rule of the road seems to be " when 
driving fast, shut both eyes and pull each rein alternately ; " 
at least this is the only way in which I can account for their 
peculiarly serpentine movements. In Grosvenor Place I was 
unlucky enough to encounter a procession of— say 40,000 — 
school children, all yelling like nightmares, who were going 
for a day at the seaside ; this necessitated a third dismount 
and a wait of several minutes till they had all gone by. I 
did not wish those children a pleasant excursion, on the 
contrary, I rather hoped they would all — well never mind, 
but the sea is a dangerous element. 

I was much struck with the improvements at Hyde Park 
Corner from a bicyclist's point of view ; in fact, from being 
one of the worst crossings in London one can now ride 
through it as easily as round a village green, to which indeed 
the whole place now beans a certain resemblance, the " Iron 
Duke " looking, to an imaginative mind, not unlike a colos- 
sal Quy Fawkes — rather uglier than the majority — already 
placed on a pjrre in time for the 5th of November. [Mr. 
Shaw-Lefevre may make what use of this hint he pleases.] 

After being considerably bumped along the Finchley New 
Road, I reached Barnet, where I halted for five minutes and 
had some shandygaff, the main result being that I slum- 
bered sweetly all the way to St. Albans, though there was 
a slight head wind which did its best to keep me awake. 
At the last-mentioned place I took the Luton road for Bed- 



Digitized by 



210 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



ford, which I found very good, but the heat being rather 
oppressive, I took the opportunity of a slight rise to dis- 
''mount, and lie on my back to admire the view as seen 
through the medium of tobacco smoke. Two miles out of 
Luton there is a slight rise, which continues to the 
verge of the town, there being a sharp descent at the finish. 
I put up at the " George "—I said before I was lazy— and 
sat in the garden for an hour or so, eating sandwiches and 
reading the paper. On leaving the town there is an almost 
imperceptible rise for three or four miles, with a corres- 
ponding descent, the surface being fairly good all the way ; 
the road is then level for several miles, till at Clophill there 
is a rise of about half a mile in length, with a steep and 
loose bit at the top, thence into Bedford is more or less 
level. Just before entering the town I passed a fat old 
farmer with about two hundred sheep, all or any of which 
he was very anxious for me to purchase; and on my 
pointing out to him that I should have some difficulty 
in taking even one with me, he offered to send it 
after me piecemeal — say a leg to Northampton, a shoulder 
to Nottingham, and so on. Declining his tempting 
offer, I made my way through the town on the road to 
Northampton ; I had only been this road once before, and 
that was early in the morning after a sleepless night, so that 
my recollections of it were the reverse of favourable. I was 
therefore agreeably surprised to find it very good for the 
first seven miles, irfter which it slightly deteriorated. As 
the evening was now closing in, I determined to go two or 
three miles out of my way to Olney — ^a very quiet little 
town, where the inhabitants, to judge by their appearance, 
subsist chiefly on soporifics. I put up at the " Bull " — a 
not uncomfortable inn, which had, I should imagine, in 
common with many others, raised its tariff in order to 
assimilate it to that proposed by the B.T.C. I drank vast 
quantities of milk and soda at supper, which is, in my 
opinion, far and away the best drink after a hot day's ride. 
Distance for first day, 72 miles. 

(To be continued), 

JOTTINGS ON THE MIDLANDS. 

The road from Derby to Lichfield (24 miles) is very 
nearly dead flat, fairly pretty country, barring the billiard 
table nature of things. The beer of Burton, the birthplace 
of malt and hops, resembles the relationship of fish to the 
seaside. The fish is all sent up to London, and you get it 
back just a day later than you eat your sprats in town. 
The same with beer at Burton ; it's a trifle mild, suggesting 
that the best has been sent away, and that the reputation 
of the place will keep the thousand and one inns going for 
many years to come. 

And this is so, for of course I should have drunk the 
beer, thirsty or not. Luckily I was thirsty, but the result 
would have been the same in either case. The amount of 
level ciossings in Burton is a caution ; I suppose for trucks 



to carry off some of the mountains of cades one sees lining 
the railway. 

Lichfield is a nasty place; durty and squalid. The 
"George" certainly is moderate in price and very com- 
fortable. The cathedral has a good east end, the rest is 
not much to brag of. The attempt at a cathedral close, 
consisting of a few oldish brick houses — one of them the 
bishop's palace— with a lot of pretty creepers about, is cer- 
tainly quaint. 

Coleshill, between Lichfield and Eenilworth, has a very 
steep hill in it. Going from London you had better walk 
down it, unlesa you've been crossed in love, and have 
insured in the new Cyclists' Assurance Society. 

Coleshill to Kenilworth, by Stone Bridge (where you 
cross the Coventry and Birmingham road), is a lovely ride, 
only rather flat; distance somewhere about ten. The 
whole thing, Lichfield to Leamington, through Coleshill, 
Stone Bridge, Kenilworth, and Warwick, is only six-and- 
thirty. Now don't tell me I went out of my way to go 
round by Warwick to Leamington. I know that ; but there 
is such a thing as a laudable desire to do a new road, 
though it is only two miles. 

Kenilworth to Coventry (5) is a glorious avenue of mag- 
nificent trees— the finest thing I know— go and see it 
yourself, and then call me liar if you can. See St. 
Michael's Church in Coventry, also the old Hall close by. 
The B.T.C. house here (Knight's) is Temperance ; I need 
not say I didn't go inside. The " Craven Arms " is very 
fairly comfortable. I think these are the only two decent 
sized inns in the place. If anyone hasn't got Howard's 
Boads of England and Wales, published by Letts, King 
William Street, let him get it at once ; price 6s., or with 
map of England 6s. It's a marvel of information about 
pretty well every road, direct and cross, surface, hills, 
scenery, B.T.C. and other inns, and a splendid index. It 
ought to be more known than it is. L. Sheddbr. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
It having been brought under the notice of the executive 
of the N.C.U. that the man-holes to the sewers in the main 
road, Merton, projected above the surface of the road and 
were consequently .dangerous to cyclists, application has 
been successfully made to have the road raised to their 
level 

«••••« 

It was a pity that the north-westerly wind which blew in 
strong gusts across the Surbiton track on Saturday afternoon 
did not fall a little sooner than it did 

As it was, Wilson was obliged to start, and he made a 
very plucky effort to beat time. The first mile was done in 
3 min. If sec, but he gradually dropped behind time. 
The fourth and fifth miles were fast, and at half-time he 
was only 180 yards behind. At eleven miles he began to 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



211 



tire, and three-qnarteis of a mile farther on he gave np^ 
his time being 35 min. 43 sec. 

• ••••• 

The One Mile Invitation Handicap held daring the 
afternoon produced a splendid finish. Thorn (15), who 
started as the fastest loser, beating Gassall (140) by a foot. 
Speechly third, a foot behind Cassall, and Gaskell (scratch) 
the samedistance distance behind Speechly. Such a splendid 
finish must have been very gratifying to the hard-working 
N.C.U. Handicapper, who is joyful at the prospect of being 
"within measurable distance" of a quiet Saturday afternoon. 

The Twenty-Five Miles Professional Championship has 
been won by Wood of Leicester, who on nine successive 
occasions has proved himself superior to Howell the 
ex-champion. The policy of the latter was to induce Wood 
to force the pace, but though he reduced his pace to a 
crawl — so much so, that the twenty-fourth mile took four 
and a half minutes — ^he could not induce the Leicester man 
to lead, and it was not till the last lap that they commenced 
to race, when the latter had the race in hand and won by 
five yards. 

• «•••• 

The Fifty Miles Championship Tricycle Road Ride 
resulted in a victory for T. R. Marriott, who won by about 
four miles from G. Smith, W. Bourdon being third. Some 
interest was shorn from the contest by the breakdown of 
Lowndes' machine, when he had only ridden six miles. 

• ••••• 

Nixon could get no nearer than eighth. It is a noticeable 
fact that only three Humbers were ridden, and these secured 
the first three places. 

«•«•*« 

According to the Cyclist, the Speedwell B.C. cleared 
£200 over their meeting in aid of the charities of Bir- 
mingham last week. 

• « • • « 

The Five Miles Invitation Race, the most interesting 
event on the programme, was won by Chambers, who beat 
lUston by a length, the latter being usually more at home 
on a calm day. The Front Whebl Hub. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sib, — As last week the " Potterer " was left on deck in an 
unprotected state, with the fierce light of public opinion 
beating on him, I crave space to set him right with the in- 
telligent and generous L.B.C. public. 

I regret that " Dodo " has dashed aside the olive branch 
held out to him, and, ignoring our humble request to be 
allowed to bask undisturbed, has girded his loins (a pro- 
ceeding that possibly is necessary in consequence of the 
broken suspender), and sailed into the Pottering interest 
with that vigour of diction in which he excels ; language 



which warms one like the sun in spring, and at the same 
time possesses a breezy freshness that is as invigorating to 
the jaded mind as nine hours at Brighton for three shillings. 

" Aut Scorcher, aut nihil,'' is the gist of his summmg up. 
But why, "Dodo?" 

Surely there is room in the Club for the two classes to 
dwell together in unity. Now, if a young member were to 
join the Club and at once set up in business as a Potterer, 
he would perhaps merit the scathing rebuke of the energetic 
"Dodo but I believe I am correct in stating that the ranks 
of the Potterers are mostly recruited from the old members 
who in the past have been all that their District Captain's 
fancy could paint them, but with increasing years have slid 
into the reserve, and only join the colours on occasions like 
the University and General Meets, when the Captain rightly 
expects every man to do his duty. At other times leaving 
the nose-on-the-wheel-business to those who have not yet 
discovered the true and lasting charm of bicycling apart 
from an athletic exercise, the Potterer looks on his machine, 
whether bicycle or tricycle, as an accessory to help him in 
finding and then enjoying the beauties of nature or in 
pursuing his researches after the mysterious fossilized bones, 
if he has any yearning for them, even at the risk of being 
indirectly stigmatized as a dismal fraud. — ^Yours, etc., 

W. R Sbwbll. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
" Hotel de France," 

Eaux Chandes, 

Basses Pyr^n^es. 
Dear Sir, — ^The Pyrenean five may be surprised to hear 
that no bicycle has been seen here since their visit four 
years ago. They are well remembered, as also at Angoul^me, 
Auch, and elsewhere. F. B. Westcott (Trin. Coll., Camb.) 
and myself have ridden here from Havre (420 miles by 
road — the rest by train). For the next ten days we follow 
in the footsteps of the "five," then home by Toulouse, 
Avignon, Clermont, etc.— Yours, 
Sept. 7th, 1883. C. A. E. Pollock. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it tliat the porpentine cftsteth off hii qtiiUs 
when he would attack, or defend himself, bat DioBOOiidee afllzmeth it a 
point of folly to beUeve it"— Sir T. Bbownx. 

The "careful man," who carries mental notes of every 
brick and loose stone in the road, is an acquisition on a 
dark night such as Saturday. 

«••*•• 

Rumour has it that Hindley is about to start for India. 
Everyone will, I am sure, join with me in wishing him bon 
voyage, and as he is only expected to be away for eight 
months, we shall hope to see and hear him again at the 
meets next season. 

• «««•• 

I am sorry to hear that a big stone was the cause of an 



Digitized by VjIJU^IC 











212 LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 






nnfortunate accident to Appleyard as he was returning 
with G. P. Coleman from Ripley. Though the cropper was 
an exceedingly nasty one^ the effects are happily not so bad 

as was first imagined. 

• •••«• 

There are a great many riders who consider that a light 
from someone else's lamp is all they require. This view, 
however, is not shared by a Croydon magistrate, who 
recently fined a lampless bicyclist lOs. and 7s. costs, though 
the latter urged as a point in his favour that he was riding 

behind two other machines with the necessary lights. 

• ••••• 

I shall be glad to accommodate any L.B.C. member with 
a " district dog," as I have eleven black retriever pups on 
hand. 

««•••« 

The S.E. D.C. presents his most respectful compliments 
to Mr. Porcupine, and begs leave to point out anent his 
little joke about the donkey last week, that as it is not the 
custom to include visitors in the South-East averages, he 
(the D.C.) could have had no "anxiety" to reckon the 

aforesaid fourfooted animal as a visitor. 

• •*••• 

One hears no end of excuses why and wherefore A or B 
cannot attend the Saturday runs. If the member who 
stayed at home last Saturday to photograph the cow will^ 

apply to the B.C.* arrangements may be made for a group. 

• ••••• 

This month's issue of the Wheel World contains a notice 
and a good portrait of J. S. Whatton, the comer sketches 
doing credit to his enthusiasm for the road as well as the 
track. 

• •••*« 

It appears to me that, by encouraging Lacrosse in our 
midst, we are nursing a serpent. Not content with their 
exhibition game at our race meeting, the Clapton Lacrosse 
Club, which consists chiefly of our members, have actually 
fixed their opening game on the afternoon of our last Meet, 
which above all others is one that should be well supported. 

Who is the new Secretary? Surely 1 he cannot be a 

member of the L.B.C. 

• ••••« 

W. J. Williams, W. Silk, and Dr. Langmore, have started 
for a tour in Switzerland. I hope we shall hear of any 

exciting adventures. 

• •«««• 

The Itmes, in a recent leader on bicycles and tricycles^ 
concludes by impressing upon riders, who are designated 
" the true lords of the road," that " their right is sure to 
be admitted ; " and warns them, while their sport is still 
young, not to be too tyrannical. 

Poverty, if combined with honesty, is always allowed to 
be eminently respectable. No wonder, then, that the 
member who had to ride from Blackheath to Woolwich, on 
his way to Upminster on Sauiirday, felt sincerely flattered 
when the small boy on a black pony, who had been his very 


pleasant companirn for three miles of the road, said at 
parting, " Good byo ; I live in that house across the common, 
and if you are hard up I am sure my father will lend you 

what you want." 

• • • • • «j 

The Romford *oad, the South-Easter's notion of an 
Essex road, is at present more than usually bad, and quite 
justifies the recently accepted teyot that the sea-serpent lies 
buried beneath it. 

I am longing for the 22nd. The Club Mile in particular 
takes my fancy ; with 300 yards start I hope to be well in 
it, and if I am not, I shall at any rate have the satiflfaction 
of having done my best to amuse the sisters, the cousins; 
and the aunts. ' 

The Half-Mile Scratch will sure to bring out a good 
field and, with Oliver Thorn in the splendid form he has . 

lately shown, it bids fair to be a very fast race. 

• • ♦ ♦ ♦ • 

The District Race, which, thanks to the excellent pro- 
vision about the eight meets, has barred all racing members, 
will prove interesting all through, though I fancy one or 
two of the districts will find some difficulty in putting three 

representatives on the track. 

• ^ • • • • 

'H. N. Sharp, who deserves great credit for the successful 
manner in which he promoted and has carried through the 
Tennis tournament, did a good thing when he arranged for 
the final to be played at Stamford Bridge, giving every- 
one a chance of witnessing some really first-class play. 

POBOUPIKE. 

RACING FIXTURES. 

Bole 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any raoe meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The foUowing list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Sept. 14, 15. — Exeter Athletic Sports. 

15. — Surrey B.C. Autumn Meeting at Eennington 
Oval. 

20.— Colchester B.C. Races. 
22.— L.B.C. Private Meeting. 
25. — ^Leominster B.C. Meeting. 
27. — Bournemouth Races. 
27.— Chichester Cyclists' Club. 
29.— L.A.C., at Stamford Bridga 
29. — ^Racos at Romford. 
Oct. 6.— Sto:<e Unity B. and T.C. Sports. 
27.— L..:.C., at Stamford Bridge. 

notice; to correspondents. 

AU contribntiont nnst be addressed to '* The Editor, L.B.C. Oasette, 
85, Eastcheap, KC,. and most bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for instriion. They must be written on one aide of the 
paper only, and, if Ju mediate insertion is desired, must be reoeiyed not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

. Printed for the Pro} rietors by Darliko & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, Eastoheap, London, E.C.— September 13, 1883. 


1 nini+i7QH hx/ V -lOOOlt^ 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 
Vol. VI. No. 29.] ^''''^''^'ii&l^J'JJ^^^^' September 20, 1883. 



OONT 

PAGE 



Road Oompetitiona 218 

Notaces 214 

Saturday Runs 214 

Olnb Meet6 215 

All Round the Wheel 215 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Tuesdays. 



ROAD COMPETITIONS. 

It must have been evident to most people interested in 
the subject that the question of racing on the road has for 
some time past been approaching the climax which it may be 
now considered to have reached. Its illegality has long and 
generally been admitted, still, when the traffic was not im- 
peded, and the proceedings were more or less of a private 
character, where was the harm ? The police had no posi- 
tive instructions to interfere, and bicycle races on the roads 
were openly held, and, if not actually countenanced, were 
winked at by the authorities. 

Such was the position at the beginning of this year, but 
a change has now come over the scene, and the equivocal 
status of road-racing is likely to be defined in such a 
manner as to do away with racing on the road altogether, 
while the privileges of the ordinary road rider stand in no 
small danger of being curtailed. When bicycle trials and 
handicaps of a comparatively private nature were barely 
tolerated, it was hardly likely that Road Championships for 
tricycles, open to the amateur world, and largely advertised 
in the sporting papers, would be viewed with equal in- 
difference. Anyone who witnessed the scene of confusion 
attending the start for the twenty-four hours Tricycle Road 
Ride must have felt a crisis was at hand ; and when a few 



BNTS. 

PAGE 

QuerulonB Queries by a Quizzing Querent 216 

QuiUfl 216 

Change of Addrefla • 209 

Racing Fixtures 216 

Notice to Correspondents , 216 



days ago, in a similar contest, two of the competitors were 
stopped by the police, no one could have been surprised. 
Stringent orders against all racing and furious riding have 
already been issued to the police in the metropolitan district, 
and matters will scarcely be allowed to end here. As parties 
interested, we cannot help looking on the steps taken 
against road-racing, as so many nails in the coffin of that 
offspring of infinite L.B.C. genius, the Bath Trial. 

Certain it is, that a race — call it a trial or road-ride if 
you please — when reasonably and privately conducted, may 
have little that is objectionable in it except perhaps its 
name, while it may be less likely to hinder the ordinary 
traffic, or to be productive of accident than some of the 
commonest phases incidental to an ordinary bicycle ride. 

A party of four or five, for instance, are out for a run 
together, when something upsets their equilibrium — mental, 
of course, and the result is a rapid transition from a sober 
sensible pace into a maniacal rush. Away they go, a spirit 
of reckless insanity possesses them all, as they vie with each 
other on each ascent. Helter-skelter through quiet lanes, 
then down they dash into some secluded village. The child 
shrieks and totters to the roadside affrighted. Who can 
say but some day he will stand, cap in hand, on the self- 
same spot ready for vengeance ? Even the village cur re- 
frains his innate obstructiveness, and Diogenes like, seeks 
refuge in his tub. 

But to turn from this, which is little more than a fanciful 
picture : it is far from improbable that the police authorities 
having discovered what a nuisance bicycle, and more 



Digitized by 



214 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



especially tricycle racing has become in its latest statue of 
development, will not trouble to draw any fine distinctions, 
but haying set their foot once for all on road competitions 
of all kinds, will proceed fiirther and cause endless incon- 
venience to wheelmen generally by rules and regulations 
strictly enforced as to the pace which is to constitute furious 
riding. By the shortsighted selfishness of the few, we have 
brought ourselves under the notice of the law, and as is 
usual in such cases, the interests of the many will have to 
suffer. 

RACE MEETING AT STAMFORD BRIDGE, ON 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22nd. 
The programme will be as follows : — 
3.0 p.m. — One Mile Club Handicap (in three heats). 

Three Prizes. Gold, Silver, and Bronze 
Medals. 
3.30 p.m. — ^Lacrosse Match. 

4.0 p.m. — 220 yards Flat Race for Boys under sixteen 
years of age. Three Prizes. 

4.10 p.m. — Final Heat of the One Mile Handicap. 

4.15 p.m. — Final Tie in the Lawn Tennis Tournament. 

4.55 p.m.— Final Heat of the 220 yards Flat Race for 
Boys. 

5.0 p.m. — Twelve Miles District Scratch Race. Three 
Prizes, Bronze Medals, two being given to 
the first two representatives of the winning 
District, and the third medal to the best 
of the other competitors. 
6.0 p.m. — Presentation of Prizes. 
Members themselves wiU be admitted /r^ on production 
of the Club Badge, and they can obtain additional tickets 
from members of the Committee at the price of Is. 

Ashley W. Baeeett, Captain. 



LACROSSE. 

Members are aware that a game of Lacrosse is to be 
played as an interlude at our Race Meeting on Saturday, 
and we give below the names of * the players who are, as will 
be observed, members and members' brothers. 

It may, perhaps, be of interest to members unacquainted 
with the game to know a few points as to the rales of 
the game. 

A game is won when the ball is sent between the goal- 
posts, which are six feet high and six feet apart. It must 
be sent below the top of the posts as in association football, 
but a tape across the top would inconvenience the goal- 
keeper. 

There are no boundaries to the field of play, and the 
game may be carried on behind the goal-posts, though a 
goal can only be scored from in front of the posts. 

There is no regulation in any way resembling " off side " 
at football. 



In an ordinary game there are twelve players on each 
side, but as the space at Stamford Bridge is limited the 
team has also been limited. 

Platebs. 



E. T. Sachs. 
Gerard Smith. 
C. Newman. 
A. C. Smith. 
R. Newman. 
Theo. Godlee. 
E H. Barrett. 
A. Murray. 



Memben* Brothm. 
Sydney Barrett 
A. P. Barrett. 
F. Sachs. 
H. Newman. 
H. Sachs. 
T. R. Sachs. 
F. W. Barrett 
E. H. Lloyd. 



In addition to the above there are several other members 
who play the game, among whom we may mention sach 
well-known names as Rucker, Jolly, Large, Berwick, Child, 
and Francis Godlee. 

We may add that the Clapton Lacrosse dub, which is 
largely composed of our own members, plays every Saturday 
during the winter, and on Thursday evenings during the 
summer, thus rarely, if ever, clashing with our Club Meets ; 
and it thus does not in any way set up as a rival to our- 
selves, but rather as an affiliated institution, and we trust 
that when the L.B.C. element is more predominant, the 
clashing of fixtures may be entirely avoided. 



SATURDAY RUNS. 



S.E. DisTEicr. 
The Crawley run with its unusual attractions, besides that 
of a fine afternoon, brought out a sufficient number of men 
to gladden the heart of the D.C. Exception might have 
been taken to the unorthodox way in which the run was 
conducted, especially in the face of the recent police regula- 
tions, but there is a charm in variety, even with the prospect 
of being arrested by some minion of the law for allowing 
your pace to exceed twelve miles an hour on the Queen's 
highway. 

About a score of men assembled at the starting place at 
five o'clock, which number included Christie, C. B. Wheeler, 
and his brother. Some surprise was expressed at the non- 
appearance of Stephen Smith, who is generally to the fore 
on these occasiona After giving him a few minutes grace^ 
the "Extraordinary," with Alfred Herbert up, led off at 
three minutes to five, followed by the others at their fixed 
intervals, the last to leave being L. B. Reynolds, who had 
one minute start, and was virtually scratch in the absence 
of Beck, Wyndham, and Thorn. At Redhill, Lloyd took 
the lead, and was never headed, winning somewhat easily 
in 1 hr. 4 min. 50 sec. from his start Three minutes later 
came Herbert and Sewell, the South-Easter securing second 
place by a bare two yards. Then followed McRae, Toung, 
L. B. Reynolds, and W. C. Oswald in quick suceession. It 
is only fair to mention several of the backmark men, well 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



215 



up at the time, stopped to look after Jackson, who, riding 
a semi-racer, came a nasty spill on Earlswood Common. 

After a fair tea at the " George," daring which the 
afternoon's events were freely discussed, the party broke up 
soon after eight ; most of the men rode back to Croydon, 
the North-Easters took train to London, and a small contin- 
gent proceeded to Brighton. The moonlit ride being not 
the least enjoyable part of the meet — or rather dispersion. 
A noticeable feature of this run was that three members 
scored their first attendance for the season, and earned the 
D.C.'s eternal gratitude. Present : Barker, C. A. Brown, 
H. G. A. Brown, Christie (N.E.), Church, Alfred Herbert, 
S. Herbert, Jackson (N.W.), Latham, Lloyd (N.E.), McRae, 
J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, L. Potter, L. B. Reynolds, 
H. Ryan (S.W.), E. D. Sewell (N.E.), Sharp, S. E. Whealler, 
C. B. Wheeler, F. H. Williams, J. W. Young, three visitors, 
and R. G. Fbangis, District Captain. 



I hope that as many men as possible will keep in view 
the last run of the year to Godstone on Saturday week, 
29th inst., in order that we may end up the season with a 
good meet. R. G. Francis, District Captain. 

N.E. DlSTBICT. 

September 15th. There were other attractions, and the 
attendance was limited accordingly. Only two members 
met the D.C. at the Comer and proceeded by the Castle 
Road to Woodford ; here Keynes joined the party for a 
short distance, but unfortunately had to be home to tea. 



so the trio proceeded to Epping by the upper road, which 
was in excellent condition for it. At the ''Thatched 
House " tea was promptly and satisfactorily served, and a 
very early start effected, partly with the object of avoiding 
certain patches of stones, an object in which the moon also 
lent timely aid. As a result Walthamstow was reached 
about 8.15. Present : Child, Eelsey, Keynes, and 

Thbo. Godlee, District Captain. 

W. District. 

September 15th. Owing to circumstances over which I 
had no control, I was unaUe to be at the run last Saturday. 
Thorn and Leeds, however, with their usual enthusiasm 
carried it out in its entirety, returning home by moonlight. 
Present : 0. Thorn and Leeds. 

Habold C. Pigott, District Captain. 



All members to Stamford Bridge next Saturday. 

Atwther Account. 
After waiting some time at Savemake Cottage I started 
for Harrow alone, vid Hanger Hill. The road just beyond 
the bridge over the Brent canal was up for drains, and in 
an awful condition. Six N.W. men turned up for tea, but 
the S.W. were conspicuous by their absence. Left Harrow 
about 7.45, but meeting Thorn shortly after I had started, 
I turned back with him, eventually getting to town about 
10.15. Present : 0. Thorn, and 

0. G. M. Leeds. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 


Date. N.E. 


N.W. 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.E. 

Blackheath Division. 


September 22— RACE MEETING AT STAMTORD BRIDGE. 


^ r Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
^ J and Syborn's Comer 
J 1^ 8.45, for Abbidob. 


8.46, "Jack Straw's 
Castle," for Mill 
Hill. 


8. 45, Savemake Cot- 
tage, MUl HUl 
Road, Acton, for 

LXATHEBHIAD. 

Meet aw. 


Kingston Station, 
4.15, for Leathib- 
HXAD. Meet W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

GODBTOITB. 


Old Lewisham 
Chnrch, 8.80, for 

GODSTONB. 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 
The Surrey Meeting went off very well, the crowd being 
as great as ever. That interesting event, the Ten Miles 
Scratch Race, was somewhat spoilt by Wilson's fall, though 
the finish was an exciting one, Liles beating Brown of the 
Brixton Ramblers by a couple of yards, while Gaskell, who 
has twice previously carried off the Challenge trophy, was 
only a foot behind the second man. 

• « • • • • 

The Mile Handicap, for which there were 62 entries, was 
won by H. G. Clark, of the Eastbourne Club (90 yards). 
Crabb (90) and W. Brown (20), both of the Brixton 
Ramblers, finishing second and third respectively. 



H. R. Reynolds competed in the Exeter Sports at the 
end of last week, and though mounted on a strange machine, 
J. R. Walter's racer, he ran fourth in the Three Miles (with 
60 yards from West), and third in the Two Miles (40 yards 
start). 

' ♦ « ♦ • • • 

Rucker performed a variety of tricks on his machine, 
which were loudly applauded by the Devonshire folks. 

A marvellous "Facile" ride has been accomplished by 
0. H. Adams, who covered 241 miles in the 24 hours. The 
route was a circular one through Cambridge, Bedford, 
Newmarket, and Biggleswada 

The FaoNT Wheel Hub. 



Digitized by 



Google 



216 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



QUERULOUS QUERIES BY A QUIZZING QUERENT. 

Dedicated to " W. X. W." and the authorities generally. 

When will the Rules Sub-Committee present its report ? 

How many Gold Medals will they give away annually in 
excess of the legal quantity ? 

Will members still have to elect their District Captain 
every week ? (Vide Regulation 2, re Meets.) 

Will the area of the Districts be defined, or will Botany 
Bay still be included in the S.W. ? 

Will District Captains score the attendance of visitors at 
Club runs? 

Will lawn tennis on Saturdays be made a capital offence ? 

Will refrigerated vouchers still have to wait in the 
draughts till the Committee are ready to receive their 
reports ? 

Will the Annual Dinner be as good at the lower tables 
as it is at the Chairman's ? 

Will the S.E. give a Ball with the sanction of the 
Captain ? 

Will the Dramatic Society have a General Meeting and 
declare a dividend ? 

Will the Smoking Concerts be held in a well ventilated 
room ? 

Will the Editor quash these quasi-querimonious quodli- 
betical questions? 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine caeteth off his qnillB 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Bbownb. 

The annual entertainment of the Otter Swimming Club 
will take place at the St. Marylebpne Baths on Tuesday 
2nd October, at 7 sharp. The racing will include an open 
scratch 100 yards, to which great interest is attached, as 
with the exception of the Championships, this is the only 
opportunity the cracks have of competing together. The 
programme will also comprise two open and two club 
handicaps, together with hurdle and tub races, and 

oroamental swimming. 

• «•••* 

This meeting has always been largely attended by 
members of the L.B.C. Tickets can be obtained of M. H. 
Dicker, R. and C. Newman, Marchant, W. R. Sewell, and 

Rucker, all members of the Otter, and probable competitors. 

• ••••• 

Owing to an unfortunate spill on the previous Wednesday, 
R. B. Hough was unable to join in the Crawley run, and I 
am sorry to say that he will not be well enough to represent 

the N.E. in the District Race. 

• » • ' • • ♦ 

I bear that his only reason for going down to Redhill 
was to encourage the members of his district, but I don't 
believe it. 

**•••• 

The O'Reilly and Stephen Smith were much missed at 
Crawley. Why did not the latter turn up? Was he 
training in the dark for the Club Mile ? 



H. R Re3molds is uiaking good use of his machine. He 

left Edinburgh and rode vid Blair Adam, Carlisle, Keswick, 

Windermere, Preston, Manchester, Runton, Derby to 

Leicester, where lie stayed a week, thence to Stourbridge, 

where he stayed another week, and then on with a firiend 

to Edgbaston, where he played in a tennis tournament 

(doubles), but survived one round only, from here he rode 

on via Oloucester, Wells and Taunton to Exeter. 

«••••• 

Having sprained his ancle, he scratches to Sharp in our 

tennis tournament, and we shall no doubt see some good ' 

play on Saturday between Naylor and the latter. 

• ••••• 

The North-East form was very conspicuous on the 
Crawley road on Saturday, and it is a pity an accident pre- 
vented R. B. Hough from furthering his district's success. 

The S.W. irrepressible was in high fettle at the statt, 
but when enquired for at tea he had miraculously dis- 
appeared no one knew where. 

The North-East are naturally great favourites for the 
Twelve Miles Roadster Race on Saturday, but I hear the 

S.E. novices are determined to make a race of it. 

• •«•«• 

Their D.C. tells me that they are still coming an, and that 
he hopes to deliver them At the post very fit, and trained to 
the hour. 

If the weather holds fine, and we are honoured by a 
large assemblage of the fair sex, our venture on Saturday 
is already an assured success. The company will be strictly 
L.B.C., and those who complained of not being able to 
find their friends at the Crystal Palace will liave no such 
difficulty on this occanjon. Porcupink 



CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
A. J. Bacon, 10, Nieuwe Vaart, Amsterdam. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

'Bule 40 eiiActB that no member represent the Clnb at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The following^ list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not incladed in this Ust is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Sept. 20.— ^Jolchester B.C. Races. 
22.— L.B.C. Private Meeting. 
25. — ^Leominster B.C. Meeting. 
27. — Bournemouth Races. 
27.— Chichester Cyclists' Cluh. 
29. — L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 
* ' 29. — ^Races at Romford. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must bfi addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gasetto, 
86, Eastcheap, £.0.,** and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietois by Dablhto & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Ei^tcheap, London, E.C.— September 20, 1688. 



Digitized by 



Google 



An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 30.] 



BNTBRBD AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rigrhts reserved.] 



September 27, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



The Yoang Enthnsiast 

Notices 

Saturday Run 

ClubMeeto 

The Autumn Race Meeting . 
To Derbyshire and Back .... 



217 
218 
218 
218 
218 
220 



PAGB 



Correspondence 221 

A Tour in Yorkshire 221 

Quills - 223 

Racing Fixtures 224 

Change of Address 224 

Notioe to Correspondents 224 



NOTICE. 

The latest hour for reception of copy for "Gazette" 
is 6.0 p.m. on Taesdays. 



THE YOUNG ENTHUSIAST. 

Enthusiasm has its merits and its demerits ; by some it 
is considered a virtue, by others a vice. There is a tale 
told of a barber of Dunkeld, who, in a fit of enthusiasm, 
spent \reeks in making a very small wig, which was only 
just big enough to fit a nutshell ; and it was only when he 
had finished it, and had nearly lost his eyesight and driven 
himself mad over it, that he found out it was of no earthly 
value. So, for the benefit of his customers, he placed it in 
a prominent position in his shop in order to point a moral 
and adorn a tale, the moral and the tale both going to 
prove the absurdity of enthusiasm. 

But it has not, we must confess, convinced us that 
enthusiasm is necessarily absurd — far from it ; for we are 
of opinion that, when directed through proper channels, it 
is a quality worthy of the highest encouragement. The right 
channel, through which it is the duty of our members to 
direct their enthusiasm, is obviously the L.B.C., and it is our 
present intention to give as good a daub as we can of theToung 
Enthusiast, whose likeness has not hitherto figured upon the 
editorial easel. No definition of him is necessary, for who 
cannot recognize him at first sight? At the 'first Meet he 
attends, he shows by the confident manner in which he 
discusses Club matters that he has already got the contents 



of the Blue Book at his fingers' ends, and a start is no sooner 
made, than he makes some adverse remarks about the slow- 
ness of the pace, and the shortness of the runs, at which the 
D.C., who has already a pretty good idea of his character, 
smiles inwardly. Before tea is over he has confided to his 
new acquaintances his intention to ride in the Bath Trial — 
though, before he started, he made up his mind to keep 
it quite dark— but of course he is only going to try for a 
certificate. While the older members are amused at his 
exuberance, the D.C. chuckles and writes him down an 
acquisition, and on the following Saturday his expectations 
are realized, for it is raining hard when he rides to the 
starting-point, and on his arrival there, the only figure to be 
seen is that of the Young Enthusiast. And who has ever 
regretted the enthusiasm that turned him out on a wet day ? 
The rain may make the ride uncomfortable, but what a 
sociable feeling pervades the few who have braved the 
elements, and when home is reached what a satisfaction 
there is in having taken the usual Saturday's recreation, 
notwithstanding those rude remarks of the Guvnor's about 
Earlswood. 

As the season progresses the appetite of the Young 
Enthusiast grows, and he takes part in everything in turn, 
be it Bath Trial or Annual Race Meeting, Lawn Tennis 
Tournament or Crawley Run, Annual Dinner or Smoking 
Concerts, Dramatic Show or South-East Ball, he is sure to 
be there. His holiday is of course spent upon the wheel, 
and an account of it is duly written for the edification of 
his fellow members in these pages. By the end of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



218 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



season he is as well known in the Club as some members of 
five or six years standing. The Captain holds him in high 
esteem, for he knows what an inilaence he exerts on those 
around him, for there is nothing so contagious as enthusiasm, 
and he hopes in his heart that that particular District which 
has so troubled him by its unaccountable falling off will 
speedily give birth to one of the species, and regain its former 
prestige. That his light is merely a temporary flare, and 
that he will suddenly die out like a Catherine-wheel is a 
commonly expressed opinion. But we will let him work 
out his own future, and leave him where he is, one of the 
main props of the club, and a motive power in our midst. 

N.W. NOTICE. 
I do hope that members will make a great effort to attend 
the last official run of this season. Mill Hill is a very short 
run, and ought to induce both the old and new riders of 
this District to score an attendance. There will be a circular 
route taken by those who wish to lengthen the afternoon's 
exercise ; but tea will be ordered for six o'clock at the Inn 
famous for its black currant jam. 

A. H. Low, District Captain. 

S.B. DISTRICT.--IMPORTANT.. 
I sincerely hope that the last meet of the year at Oodstone 
on Saturday will be largely patronized. A great many men 



have promised to come already, and as some of the cripples 
and others are coming down by train we ought to have the 
largest meet of thd season. The Croydon Division will wait 
for the Blackheath men at the Fire Station until 4.30. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 
N.B.— There is a train from Cannon Street at 4.37, 
arriving at Caterham, about 1^ miles from the " Claydon 
Arms," at 5.25, and return trains at 8.50 and 10.10. 

S.R DISTRICT.— LAST RUN OF THE SEASON. 
We hope that all members of the District will attend the 
run to Oodstone next Saturday, in order to show their 
appreciation of the energy displayed by our popular D.C. 
during his first year of office. 

H. G. A. Beowh, Ex D.C. 
Stephen P. Smith, Dep. D.C. 

SATURDAY RUN. 



N.W. DiSTBICT. 

The Harrow Meet of the N.W., W., and S.W. was 
carried out on September 15th in spite of the attractions 
held out in the S.E., no less than seven partaking of the 
evening meal provided at the " King's Head." Present of 
the N.W. : E. L. Boyer and his cousin, Elgood, Hindley, 
TuUoch, and A. H. Lown, District Captain. 



FIXTURES FOR CLUB MEETS. 



Dftte. 


N.E. 


N.W, 


W. 


S.W. 


S.E. 

Croydon Division. 


S.R 

Blackheath Divinon. 


September 29. 


1^ Lea Bridge Rd. 8.80, 
' and Sybom's Comer 
1 8.45, for AsBmoi. 


8.45, Jack Straw's 
Castle,'* for Mill 
Hill. 


8. 45, Savemoke Cot- 
tage, MiU HiU 
Boad, Acton, for 
Lkathebhxad. 
MeetS.W. 


EingBton Station, 
4.15, for Lbathib- 
HiAD. Meet W. 


4.80, Croydon Cen- 
tral Station, for 

GODSTONB. 


Old Lewishsm 
Chnrch, 8.80, for 

GODSTONB. 



THE AUTUMN RACE MEETING. 

The Autumn Race Meeting is over, and taking into con- 
Bideration the lateness of the season and the absolutely 
private character of the proceedings, it must be pronounced 
a decided success. The attendance, as was expected, was 
certainly small, but, on the other hand, it was very select, 
and we are greatly indebted to the ladies who, despite a 
somewhat chilly afternoon, honoured us with their presence 
in considerable numbers, adding immensely to the enjoyment 
of the afternoon. 

Thanks to the admirable provisions of the Race Committee 
and the energy of the various officials the programme was 
carried through without a hitch. The only contretemps 
happened in the first heat of the Mile, when E. D. Sewell 
ran against the wood at the side of the track and fell. 
Happily the injuries were only of a slight character, 
though they were sufficient to prevent him starting in the 
Twelve Miles. There might, perhaps, have been another 



bicycle race, and had not the Half-Mile Scratch fallen 
through on account of the small entry, the programme 
would have been complete. 

The Lacrosse Match and the Lawn Tennis Competition 
were decidedly novel features, and the spectators showed 
very great interest in them. The most satisfactory item on 
the programme was the Twelve Miles Roadster Race, which, 
from the spectators point of view, was interesting through- 
out, and, as a means of bringing to light the otherwise 
hidden qualities of our young members, it is an event which 
should in the future meet with great encouragement. The 
following is the list of officials : Judge, M. D. Rucker, Jun., 
Starter, Ashley Barrett; Timekeeper, H. 6. A. Brown; 
Clerks of the Course, C. Newman and F. M. Williams ; 
Laptakers, J. W. Alison and W. A. Smith ; Referees, G. F. 
Beck and Theo. Godlee ; Handicappers, The Race Com- 
mittee. Appended are the details of the various events 
decided. 



Digitized by 



GoQsk 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



219 



One Milb Hakdioap. 

First Heat. — 0. Thorn, scratch, ] ; A. Lloyd, 130 yards 
start, 2 ; W. C. Oswald, 110, 3 ; L. B. Reynolds, 70, ; 
E. D. Sewell, 150, 0. Sewell fell entering the straight in 
the first lap, and Lloyd took up the running. Thorn soon 
got past Reynolds, and catching Lloyd down the back- 
stretch, won as he pleased by eight yards. Oswald came 
with a grand spurt at the finish, and was only just beaten 
for second place. Time, 2 min. 58| sec. 

Second Heat. — 0. 0. M. Leeds, 60 yards start, 1 ; Theo. 
Godlee, 130, 2 ; S. P. Smith, 180, 3. The limit man was 
soon passed, and Leeds, catching Godlee at the end of the 
third lap, rode in the winner. Time, 3 min. 7 sec. 

Third Heat.— S. Herbert, 160 yards start, 1 ; R. G. 
Francis, 120, 2 ; H. Baldwin, 140, 3. Herbert was never 
approached, and won by several lengths. K G. Francis 
passed Baldwin in the second lap. Time, 3 min. 4| sec. 

Final Heat.— S. Herbert, 1 ; Leeds, 2 ; Francis, 3 ; 
Thorn, 0. About half-way round the second lap Thorn's 
back wheel tyre came off, and he was obliged to retire from 
the contest, which, judging from the distance he had picked 
up would have resulted in his victory. Leeds gained con- 
siderably on the other two, but though he passed Francis, 
he was unable to get up to Herbert who spurted gamely 
down the straight and secured the^ verdict by five yards. 
Time, 3 min. 2f sec. 

The Laobosse Match. 

The Lacrosse Match was very well received, especially by 
the fair sex. After the leading article and correspondence 
in the Gazette, we wanted to see a few of the Members' 
Brothers. The members playing evidently saw too much 
of them, as they got a beating of two goals to " love " 
(much more fun to have two girls to love). The result was 
attributable in a great measure to the play of Arthur Barrett 
and T. R. Sachs, both of whom were played in the picked 
team of England and Ireland v. Canada, and their side, 
under the captaincy of the latter, were more even, and 
played better together. No particularly good dodging or 
passing was shown, but Arthur Barrett got in one or two 
moderately long throws> and the goals were very ably 
defended by Sydney Barrett and E. T. Sachs, goal keepers 
of the Clapton and London respectively. 

The latter, who captained the Member's side, was called 
upon to stop a good number of hot shots from two of his 
brothers. He was watched with great interest by the 
spectators, expecting every moment to see him extract a 
ball or two from the hair of an antagonist, or take some 
out of the flags ; but he contented himself by keeping 
them out. It is not our intention of giving a critical 
resume of the play, as the time was so short that the men 
had no chance of settling down to woric and showing the 
game o£f to advantage, and being only the beginning 
of the season the players were somewhat out of form. 
On looking down the names, it would seem to be 



rather a family game, but this is due to the fact 
that men living together have more opportunity for 
practice, of which a great deal is necessary to make a 
skilful player. The continuation of brotherly love, we 
should think, received rather a severe strain at the hands 
of the brothers, Arthur and Ernest Barrett, when they did 
chance to meet one another. Great efforts were made to 
keep the game as much as possible to members and brothers, 
and this desire was only a little stretched when Godlee and 
Lloyd could not play, their places being filled by two men 
who will be related to the Club "as it were." Further 
particulars, however, on this point can be obtained from two 
old members. The Potters were not in it on Saturday; 
they had better join the new club talked of at Croydon 
should they wish to compete with the Barretts at Lacrosse. 
After the match some of our members spoke of going down 
to Walthamstow to try their hands at the game, where they 
will be heartily welcomed by the Clapton Club, whose execu- 
tive consists entirely of L.B.C. men, three of them also 
belonging to our Committee. As this club has altered its 
first fixture in deference, to the wishes expressed in the 
Gazette, they hope to secure lots of recruits from our ranks 
this season. 

220 Yards Flat Race (for boys under 16). 
H. S. Baldwin, 18 yards start, 1 ; G. Whalley, 18, 2 ; 
B. Tacagni, scratch, 3. Won by three yards, two yards 
separating second and third. Time, 27f sec. 

Final Tie of the Lawn Tennis Touenament. 
As H. R. Reynolds, last year's winner of the tournament, 
had scratched to H. N. Sharp on account of a sprained 
ancle, it remained for the energetic secretary to play off 
the final tie with W. E. Naylor. The court was not in as 
good condition as it might have been on account of the 
recent rain, but the spectators had the privilege of wit- 
nessing some first-class play. Naylor won by two sets to 
love^the first by six to love and the second by six to 
three. 

Twelve Miles Distkiot Roadster Race. 

(Three representatives from each district, who must have 
attended not less than eight meets ; that district to win of 
which two representatives first complete the distance.) 

0. Thorn, W. District, 1 ; D. McRae, S.E., 2 ; W. C. 
Oswald, S.E., 3 ; S. Herbert, S.E., 0; A. Lloyd, N.E., 0; 
S. G. Hough, N.K, ; 0. G. M. Leeds, W., ; A. Barrett, 
N.E., 0. Barrett, who took Sewell's place and rode a machine 
he could scarcely reach, retired early in the race, and when 
Leeds quitted the track at 6f miles the race was left to be 
fought out between the representatives of the N.E. and the 
S.E. Thorn, with a generosity that was much appreciated, 
simulated well and rode badly. As the race progressed the 
excitement grew, and each time the competitors came round 
the shouts for the respective districts were most enthusiasti- 
cally given ; it was anything but a procession, as spurting 



Digitized by 



220 LONDON BICYCLE 



seemed to be largely indulged in. When the bell rang all were 
well together. Thorn, taking the rest along at a good pace, 
kept the lead and won by five yards ; the three South- 
Easters came in together next, McBae just beating Oswald 
on the tape, Lloyd and Hough close up. The time which, 
considering roadsters were ridden is exceptionally good, is 
giren at the conclusion of each mile. 



Miles. Min. Bee. 

1 8 29 

2 6 65 

3 10 21 

4 : 13 60 

6 17 19 

6 20 47 

7 24 11 

8 27 88 

9 31 11 

10 34 42 

11 38 10 

12 41 26t 



At the conclusion of the programme Miss Barrett kindly 
distributed the prizes, and the meeting broke up after three 
cheers for the ladies. 



TO DERBYSHIRE AND BACK. 

I have some idea that a large part of the road I traversed 
is familiar to a good many, and shall consequently not 
dwell on that subject at any length. 

I started at about five p.m. on the 8th September with a 
friend, and we wended our way down Clapton, Stamford 
Hill, and over Muswell Hill to Barnet, which, from much 
rain, was in deplorable condition ; in fact it always is, and 
the natives seem to know it, for, on remarking same to one 
of those creatures in the following words " Why don't you 
keep your roads better, governor," he replied, " 'Taint my 

fault, I pay my rates and taxes, but the s won't do it." 

After reaching Barnet the run through Hatfield and 
Hitchiu to Bedford (51) was grand. We stopped here all 
day Sunday, and on Monday morning made an early start, 
reaching Kettering (25) witliout event, for breakfast. No 
sooner had we arrived than the rain came down and didn't 
leave ofif for a good twenty-four hours ; however, we didn't 
mean stopping there, so started at one p.m. in spite of it, 
and rode through to Leicester (25) to dinner. On the way 
we indulged in a drink, and were highly amused at the 
serious tone in which the landlord told us that them things 
was going out, it being too much hard work. I need hardly 
say that on arriving at Leicester we were drenched, but, 
thanks to mine host, were provided with dry clothes. Same 
dry clothes, however, belonged to mine host himself, and I 
would bet big things he did not weigh less than twenty 
stone. I will not go into details, but will simply say we 
looked like two wretched paupers, and felt awfully hungry ; 
consequently, we proceeded to the coflFee room, and there 
met the gaze of several other visitors to complete our feelings 
of misery. 

The next morning, as it was still raining, we trained it to 
Derby (30), and had a first-rate breakfast at the " St. James's 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



Hotel," (C.T.C.) By the time breakfast was well out of the 
way, the weather had cleared, and our last drop of rain for 
the rest of the tour been seen. There is nought of interest 
at Derby, but the road to Matlock (17) is delightful as 
regards scenery (the Powers forbid that I should call any 
road in Derbyshire anything but vile in any other respect). 
We found picking blackberries and a smoke also delightful 
— in fact, be it said to our shame, I think we liked it better. 
On reaching Matlock our day's journey was done. The town 
is grandly situated, and well worth a visit. The caverns 
and the heights were duly inspected and admired, and in 
the evening to our intense disgust, though certainly to 
our amusement, we found ourselves actively engaged in a 
shooting competition with each other in a strolling fair. 

Feeling very much demoralised by the above, the next 
morning we vowed we would pay ourselves out and ride 
forty miles. Don't laugh, dear reader ; that is a big ride 
in Derbyshire, which we accomplished, more or less, by 
going through Chatsworth and the model village of Edensor, 
so well worth a visit, to Baslow (1 5), thence to Castleton 
(10), where we met two " Sociablists', " who were averaging 
about twelve miles a day. We passed them, firstly, a mile 
or two from that town, engaged in the entertaining pastime, 
outside an inn, of administering a red hot poker to the 
cement on their tyres. 

At Castleton the Blue John Mine was visited, but not 
without labour in the shape of getting up a very stiff hill 
about two miles long. Don't imagine, dear reader, that we 
rode it ; we had just had dinner, and required to rest twice 
in shoving up. But we were fully repaid, for the inside of 
the cavern is strikingly grand, and the huge overhanging 
rocks, with seemingly very insufficient support, very much 
impress the spectator, so much so in fact that you b^in to 
wish yourself well out of it. 

We reached Buxton (12), and put up at the " Shakspeare." 
There is no C.T.C. house here, therefore we should recom- 
mend the above. In the evening we were much edified by 
a glorious band and promenade in the gardens, -on leaving 
which we regaled ourselves with laughing until we tortured 
our sides, at a " Punch and Judy show." Moral, so far : 
Man does sometimes sink beneath himself. 

On the 13th September, the following day, we left Buxton 
and travelled vid Newhaven House to Ashbourne (20), just 
in time for the two o'clock ordinary with a party of farmers, 
and after a considerable amount of down-hill, although the 
roads were always the same as regards roughness. We 
communicated our opinion of the roads to the farmers in 
question, who were simply astounded, and declared them to 
be the best in the country. 

It is a grand thing to be just in time for dinner, one 
saves a good half-hour, for which we were very grateful as 
it gave us plenty of time for a stroll down to the river, a 
lounge on its banks, and a jolly swim. After which we re- 
mounted and went md Uttoxeter to Lichfield (27), and 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



221 



were tnily thankful to be able to move more freely along 
the roads, although we found that Derbyshire had com- 
pletely spoilt us for pace, and for the rest of the tour we 
were unable to do an3rthing decent in that respect. 

Lichfield has already been dealt with in the Gazette a 
few weeks back, as has also our road as far as Coventry, 
Eenilworth, and Warwick, which is splendid going. We 
stopped the night at Stratford-on-Avon. Those readers who 
have not visited this town, I should recommend to take an 
early opportunity. The inhabitants are enormously proud 
of their great Shakspeare. The first thing that strikes 
the eye is the new memorial, then the church where he is 
buried ; then we arrived at the " Shakspeare Hotel/' and 
were conducted to our room known as " Macbeth." After 
changing we descended to the co£fee room, but not before 
passing on the stairs a large oil-painting of the big man ; 
in the cofiee room there were four likenesses of him, and 
the walls were decorated with prints of various scenes in 
his plays. After tea we strolled forth, and various statues 
on the same subject met our gaze, and then the house was 
visited. We were told that 14,000 visitors annually go to 
see the house of his birth. Yankees abound in this district. 
The house is very interesting. Their great motto is — 

" Take him for aU in aU, 

We shaU never see his like again.'* 

I am a great admirer of Shakspeare, lut I never dreamt 
of hero-worship to the extent it goes on here. 

Don't miss the bath in the river at Stratford, it is worth 
the visit, if there were nothing else. We were considerably 
amused at the*speculations of two very small boys as to the 
price of our bicycles. One of them seemed convinced that 
they must have cost two shillings each. 

The following day was uneventful ; we started after 
breakfast and rode through Banbury (20) to Aylesbury (30) 
for dinner, and thence to Watford (23) for tea, where we 
stopped all day Sunday, and on Monday morning rode 
home to breakfast through Elstree, Bamet, and Muswell Hill. 

The road from Aylesbury to Watford, barring a longish hill, 
is the finest I was ever on. Asphalte could scarcely beat it. 

My experience of a bicycle tour is that riding every day 
gets monotonous and is a mistake, for although we had a 
very jolly time of it, and did nothing to fatigue ourselves, 
we should have enjoyed the riding itself very much more had 
we put an interval in once or twice. 

The distances I give are all within one or two miles, but 
in most cases are quite correct. As will be perceived, my 
object was to go sight-seeing, and not to try for a record. 

S. 6. Hough. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Dear Sir, — As one of the Pyrenean five I was much in- 
terested to hear that my once " frequent pardner," C. A. E. 
Pollock, was on our trail, and shall anidously await an 
account of his experiences. 



It may, perhaps, comfort some of those who have lately 
mourned over the threatened decadence of the Club, owing 
to the prevalence of a certain epidemic," to learn that a 
family party, consisting of a member and his wife, and a 
"members brother and sister," have been "pottering" 
through Normandy on two "Sociables." We rode from 
St. Male to Rouen, via Dinan, Mount St. Michel, Avranches, 
Mortain, Caen, and Lisieux, trained to Havre, and returned 
thence to Southampton. We covered rather over 300 miles 
in the three weeks, of which about 230 were in France ; 
riding days, 14. We carried 50 lbs. of luggage on each 
machine, including a folding indiarubber bath (weight 3 lbs.), 
which was an immense success. 

Trusting that the above experience may be taken as a 
proof that married members are not necessarily " done for," 
I remain, yours truly, 

G. R. HUTOHINQS. 



7o the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Morez, Dept. Jura (2400 feet), 

September 23, 1883. 
The Franco-Swiss Trio are glad to state have reached so 
far safely, having ridden from Dieppe. Weather most 
brilliant for first week to Dijon, since been unsettled. No 
incidents have occurred, except the front bearings of one 
machine locking twice, happily without a spilL Scenery in 
the Jura grand. Have taken all day doing 24 miles to-day, 
having to go over Col de la Savine, 3225 feet. Are hoping 
to reach Oeneva to-morrow, but have to cross Col de la 
Faucille, 4400 feet, first. Weather to-night promising. 
Result of nine days riding, 401 miles. 

W. J. WlLUAMS. 



A TOUR IN YORKSHIRK 
Monday, the 10th July last year, was the day fixed for 
a week's run in Yorkshire. As a week could only be spared 
for that part of the holiday I decided upon training it to 
Sheffield, and making that the starting place. In order not 
to lose time I took the 5.15 a.m. train — ^the newspaper 
express — ^from St. Pancras, and at 9 a.m. landed on the 
paving stones of the centre of the cutlery trade. Sheffield 
did not impress me with being a very desirable place for 
making a long stay, so after breakfast at the "King's 
Head " (good), and a short walk round, twelve o'clock saw 
me in the saddle, struggling over greasy paving stones 
towards Barnsley. Once free of the town it was grand 
going ; a mile or so before coming to Barnsley there is a 
capital opportunity for legs up, of which advantage was 
taken — the corresponding rise was not so cordially negotiated. 
Dinner at the " Royal " (good) ; there, as at almost every 
other place I dined at, the regular dinner time was one 
o'clock, when soup, hot joints, and pastry were always to 
be had, a pleasant change from the cold beef, which is the 
rule in the southern and western counties. Apropos of this, 



Digitized by 



222 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



has anybody ever had beef otherwise than cold in these 
districts ? I have made any amount of enquiries, but have 
never yet been able to elicit an affirmative. What an oppor- 
tunity in these days of records to make one here. Barnsley 
was left behind at about 3.45, and Wakefield reached an 
hour later, the road continuing good. This town is no 
less business-like in appearance than its neighbour, and the 
streets are all paved like those of all manufacturing towns 
in Yorkshire. After getting off the paving the road is 
very bad indeed — ^never before have I been over a rideable 
road so lumpy ; again and again was I almost jolted out of 
the saddle. To make matters worse, after a few miles 
of this sort of thing, paving, awful to contemplate, appeared 
over half the road. This execrable road continued, and it 
seemed as if a series of small earthquakes had operated 
thereon, until Hunslet was reached, when this paving of 
young boulders spread out over the whole road, and for two 
or three miles the travelling was about as bad as it could 
possibly be, the best riding being between the tram lines 
which run between Hunslet and Leeds. The latter place 
was reached about 6 p.m. I put up at the ''Queen's Hotel" 
(recommended) near the railway station, and after a wash, 
change, and tea, I went to the theatre and saw " Fun on 
the Bristol " — a more wretched affair I have never seen. 
I may mention here that I always send on a portmanteau 
with an entire change, and find the arrangement answers 
capitally. It does away with the necessity of a multum, 
costs little, and whilst washing, the " Boots " of the hotel 
can go to the station and fetch it. Leeds was left at 
about eleven next morning by the Whitehall Road en route 
for Halifax ; the road between these two places is 
hilly and bad. I learned afterwards that the best way 
is to go 1^ Bradford. A long hill has to be mounted 
out of the town, which, although rideable, makes one glad 
of a rest at the top. From here to Halifax the hills on the 
whole are favourable, but one's hill climbing powers are 
severely tested by some of them, especially that leading 
into Halifax. Here, indeed, a dismount is necessary at the 
top, for the descent through the town is extremely dange- 
rous. A stop was made here for dinner at the " White 
Lion " (good). I had intended riding on to Keighley (pro- 
nounced Keethly) by the direct road, but was fortunately 
warned in time, and advised to go via Bradford, which I 
did, and found the road very fair. There is a long grind 
out of Halifax on this road which, however, was successfully 
ridden, and then the road becomes fairly level. By this time 
I had become learned in the mysteries of the Yorkshire 
language, and enquired if it were not straat forward to 
Bratfoord," as if I had been a native. 

There are plenty of paving stones and tram lines to get 
over at the seat of the great Woollen Manufacture, then a 
capital road takes you to Keighley. Here I stayed the 
night, at, I think, the " Devonshire Arms ; " I liked the 
situation of the town, the neighbourhood being extremely 



hilly and pretty. The following morning I got the chance 
of a drive over the hills in a small trap ; it .was a glorious 
run, and the old fellow that drove took an interest in pointing 
out anything worth seeing in the neighbourhood, and had 
tales to tell of everything and of everybody. After two hours 
of this, and breakfast, a start was made for Otley, a splendid 
ride alongside the Wharfe for some distance, and through 
Ilkley. I had to get off for the last bit of one hill a few 
miles from Keighley, otherwise the road was. fairly level 
While near Otley a thunderstorm came on, and I greatly 
admired the effect of the lightning on the surrounding hills, 
although it was only by doing all I knew that I was able to 
get to Otley before the rain commenced. The storm only 
lasted an hour, so after dinner at the "White Horse" 
(good) I set off for Harrogate, which was reached at 4 p.m. . 
After securing a bed at the Commercial " (good) a good 
swim was obtained in the sulphur baths. The smell of the 
water is peculiar to say the least of it, and has the 
appearance of being very dirty ; yet these were only mild 
baths, the strong ones being, as I was informed, both 
dirtier-looking, and of a stronger smell. I feel particularly 
glad I did not go in for them. At 8 p.m. a visit was paid 
to the Spa, where I had a glass of " iron " water, and 
asked for one of ''magnesia," but, as the attendant 
informed me, it was impossible to hope to survive sulphur, 
iron, and magnesia, I had to forego the latter. The 
baud and singing at the Spa were very jolly, although there 
is a diminutive appearance about the building, which is 
a small imitation of that of Buxton. Harrogate struck me 
as being a very healthy-looking place, lying high, but is, I 
should imagine, dull. If ever a morning looked like rain 
it did so the following day, and it was coming down slightly 
as the town was left at 9.30. Bipon was left behind an 
hour later, the road being a very good one through Ripley ; 
as it looked very threatening no stay was made to see the 
cathedral. The road continued good, and it was an agree- 
able surprise to find that Looming Lane was capital going, 
as the description received of it was that it was only rideable 
at the sides. 

Six miles from Kipon the rain began, and it came down 
so hard that in a very few minutes my clothes were wet 
through, but no shelter being procurable there was nothing 
for it but to push on. The destination for the day was 
Darlington, and there my portmanteau had been sent, but 
the roads got so thoroughly bad, and as there were no signs 
of the rain giving over after having ridden 20 miles in it, a 
resolve was made to stay at Eichmond, where I arrived at 
1 p.m., and put up at the "King's Head" (good). The 
manager of the hotel offered to lend me a change, and, 
although he was but about half my height, the offer was 
accepted with pleasure. After struggling into the clothes 
a descent was made for dinner, and a delightful spec- 
tacle I must have presented to the other occupant of 
the room, a clergyman who had come up for an archery 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



223 



competition, and as he seemed decidedly uncomfortable and 
nervous of being in the same room with me, I had to ex- 
plain, at which he appeared considerably relieved. After 
waiting until about 4 p.m., as the rain showed no signs of 
abatement, and my things having been not only dried, but 
scorched, I decided to take train for Darlington. Richmond 
is an extremely pretty place, and should be very enjoyable 
in fine weather. At the North Country Quaker City I put 
up at the " Fleece " (good). 

The next morning was dull and looked very much like 
raining any moment, so as I wanted to see Scarborough, I 
decided to take the train. Whilst changing trains at York, 
I was surprised to hear my name rising far above the noise 
and bustle of the station ; I thought, perhaps, that I had 
suddenly become famous, and yet could not recollect having 
done anything more meritorious than the gaining of a 
Bath medal the year before, but a second later I was 
undeceived — it was but the voice of the future N.W. D.C. ; 
however, I was very glad to see him, and as he was going 
to Whitby with his people we were able to be together half- 
way to Scarborough. The Pride of Yorkshire was reached 
at 4 p.m., and after a change, and dinner at the Bull " 
(fair), a swim was indulged in but not enjoyed, the baths 
appearing to be the last resting place of the beetles and 
other insects of the neighbourhood. The evening turned 
out very fine and was spent at the Spa, which is decidedly 
quite too all but. Next day was a drencher, so I started 
home by train, arriving in time to ride to Whip's Cross to 
see the finish of the N.E. Paperchase, and to spend a very 
jolly evening with the District at the house of our D.C. 

I have not put in the distances in the above account, 
having forgotten them, but the mileage was not great. 
I found about 40 miles almost sufficient for a day's ride 
upon the average. R. B. HouaH. 

QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny ddiver it that the porpentine caeteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioeoorides affinneth it a 
point of folly to belieye it.**— Sir T. Bbownx. 

A monkey on a gridiron is a familiar though offensive 

term to a bicyclist, but a tricyclist is now known as a 

monkey on the mouch. 

News has been received of A. W. Chippindale from 
Adelaide, South Australia, dated the end of July. He 
seems to have been having a rare good time of it. He says 
he had been up in the bush for an eighteen weeks' trip, 
during which time he had covered three thousand five 
hundred miles. 

He was just off on another expedition to Rockhampton, 
and the Far North in Queensland. He mentions that 
bicycling is on the increase, and in South Australia in 
particular, but of course only near the principal towns, as 
sandhills and stony plains without water are not adapted 
for the wily cyclist. 



He had just seen the result of the Bath Trial in the 

Field, and lamented that he was not ubiquitous enough to 

have been present in body, although he was in mind. He 

talks of being present next Whit Monday, however, as far 

as he can at present judge, and concludes by desiring to be 

remembered to all his friends. 

*««««« 

The 24th Annual Entertainment of the Ilex Swimming 

Club will take place at the Lambeth Baths, on Thursday, 

the 4th of October, at 7.0 p.m. The programme is an 

interesting one, and containa three open events, entries for 

which should be sent to the Hon. Sec, 0. 0. M. Leeds, 

Floating Baths, Charing Cross. 

• « « • ' ♦ • 

Saturday afternoon at Stamford Bridge was a very 
pleasant family party, where everybody seemed to know 
everybody. One reporter was observed, besides the repre- 
sentative of this Oazette, but he seemed out of his element. 
«««««• 

Several of the usual incidents of a L.B.C. Race Meeting 
were present. The N.E. District Captain rode his usual 
mile ; Stephen Smith, whose journey to the ground 
suggested a large family out for a holiday, once more did 
his duty as a Club member in a way that ought to make 
half the Club blush, if they weren't past that long ago ; 
Oliver Thorn was to the front as usual, and youth and 
beauty smiled as Y. and B. only do at our Club Race 
Meetings. 

• • • « « e 

Of course some members always disgrace themselves by 
being absent on these occasions, but words fail me to 
describe the iniquities of the member who was seen sneaking 
out of West Brompton Station on his way to the Kildare 
sports! I won't hold him up to universal execration 
by disclosing his name ; his conscience will probably be a 
sufiicient punishment. Only I fear a member who prefers 
the Eildare to his Club Race Meeting has'nt got a conscience, 

and does'nt read his Oazettb. The Eildare ! Ugh ! ! 

• •«••« 

After which outburst, I may remark that Thorn had very 
bad luck in the Mile, which he would probably have won 
had not his back wheel tyre come off. Sewell's tumble was 
unlucky, and another N.E. member was very lucky in not 
following his example. 

The Lacrosse excited great interest ; Arthur Barrett's 
throwing, and the goal-keeping of Sachs and Sidney Barrett 
being much admired. Charles Newman also distinguished 
himself in some position, the name of which your deponent 
knoweth not. 

I should have thought with a six foot goal the best way 
was to put two or three of the team into coats of armour, 
and stand them across the goal, then no ball could get 
through. 

• ••«•• 

I understand that the Editor wafi observed having a 



Digitized by 



1 



224 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



private lesson in La Crosse after the game, in which he 
nearly killed himself and the neighbouring Commissionaire, 
and attempted to damage a train on the adjacent railway. 
He thinks the game not as easy as it looks. 

Do the Insurance Companies consider La Crosse an eztrf^^ 

hazardous risk. 

• ««•*• 

Beck's Alpine experience landed him on the top of a 
terribly high stool as referee during the Tennis Tournament, 
and he did his duty regardless of the giddy depths below 
and the occasional shots which the losing player took at 
him. 

«««••• 

Sharp played up well, getting at many balls which looked 
out of his reach, but Naylor's serves and volleys were too 

much for him. 

• ••«•• 

Fred. Williams looked after his large family at the start 
with fatherly care, and they all escaped being annihilated 
by the pistol. I need hardly say the winner came from the 

North-East. 

• ••••« 

The Twelve Miles Race was the excitement of the day. 
Though the North-East had hard luck in losing the services 
of the Treasurer and Sewell through tumbles, they made a 
good fight of it, and it was anyone's race till the last lap. 
The South-East team rode splendidly, McRae especially so, 
and it was very refreshing to see five comparatively yonng 
members of the Club showing such form. The pace was 
rather too fast for the West racing men. 

• ««*«• 

The success of the S.E. team not only does credit to 
themselves, but also to their energetic D.C., whose dis- 
crimination in selecting the young blood and personally 
superintending their training is worthy of the highest com- 
mendation. 

• • • « « ft 

We shall no doubt see these so-called novices among the 

early arrivals at the ninth milestone on Whit-Monday next. 

• • » • • ♦ ♦ / 

I hope all members will do their best to attend the last 
meet of the season on Saturday. Some members will also 

make it their first meet. 

• "»••••. 

On dit that the Potters, wind, weather and other circs, 
permitting, mean to beat record at Oodstone on Saturday 
by bringing six of the brothers. The present record is five, 
and is a tie between the Bairetts and Potters. Now then 
Barretts ! 

• * • • • • 

It does not do to attempt too much at a time, as I found 
on Saturday, when after making my debut on the path, 
I lost the opportunity of posing before a distinguished 
L.B.C. company in the fresh rdU of a Club masher, by 
sitting down on my newly-ironed silk hat in a moment of 
extreme agitation in the dressing room. 



They say " a stitch in time saves nine." It did more on 

Saturday — ^it won the District Roadster Race for the S.E. 
• . -4 V ♦ ♦ • ♦ 
The Captains'^|f|the two Eastern Districts, who had all 

m 



along looked on 
were cruel enough 
comfiture of one o: 



oadster Race as their private property, 
t io hide their satisfaction at the dis- 
B Western thoroughbreds. 



It was hard lines on Lloyd; who, in order to do his best for 
his district, gave u^ almost a certainty of a place in the Mile. 

Their District Captain tells me there were twenty-eight 

S.E. men on the ground. I hope he may get them all at 

Oodstone on Saturday. 

• • • • • • 

I hear that Beck thinks the path flat and unprofitable 

after the couloirs " and ardtes " (I hope I have the terms 

correct) of the higher Al^. » ♦ « 

The Lacrosse display was quite a feature of the after- 
noon, though there were some heard to say they did not 
see much in that sort of game to keep a man away from 
Saturday runs. 

A blanket would have covered the three S.K novices as 

they finished for the Twelve Miles. Their D.C. said it was 

the proudest moment of his life, and that he means to make 

to small fortune in the training business next year. 
» • • • « • 

The September number of Longman's Magazine contains 

a fifteen page article on " Cycling as an Intellectual Pursuit," 

by Dr. B. W. Richardson. 

« • • * * • 

Bath Oliver could not withstand the temptation of some 

quiet chaff at the expense of the other competitors in the 

District Race, such as. Now then ! don't stop in firont there, 

I'm getting cold. And the ludicrous faces he put on as he 

whipped in past the judge's table caused considerable 

amusement. Poecupinb. 

RAQING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The following list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions our 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to conmiunicate with the Captain. 

Sept. 27. — Boprnemouth Races. 

27.— Chichester Cyclists' Club. 
29.— L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 
29. — Races at Romford. 



CHANGE OF ADDRESS. 
W. T. Thorn, 49, Stanley Gardens, Belsize Park, N.W. 

NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must be addressed to « The Editor, L.B.C. Gasette, 
85, Eastcheap, E.C./' and must bear the name of the author, though not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling ft. Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, :^5, Eastcheap, London, E.C.— September 27, 1883. 



GoogI( 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 31.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



October 4, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 



Winter Amiueinents ...... 

Notices 

Saturday Rnns 

Honour to whom Honour , 
Why we don't Come , 



225 
225 
226 
227 
228 



PAGE 



Correspondence 229 

An Aimless Ramble f continued ) 229 

Quills « 232 

Racing Fixtures 232 

Notice to Correspondents 232 



With the issue of this Number, the Gazette will cease to 
appear every week, and wiU be published monthly during 
the winter. ITi^ next Number will be published on Thursday, 
November 1st, and contributions intended for it must be 
sent in by 6 p,m, on Tuesday, October SOth. 



WINTER AMUSEMENTS. 
That we English " amuse ourselves sadly " is reputed to 
be a French axiom, but this would perhaps be revoked by the 
intelligent foreigner were he permitted to share in the 
joviality of a Smoking Concert or the festivity of a S.E. Ball. 
But tho' these and other winter amusements are pleasant, 
it is desirable at this, the close of our riding season, to decide 
as to the propriety of repeating them. That they involve 
much labour to their promoters is not to be doubted, certain 
also it is that they carry with them a good deal of expense ; 
but while men are patriotic enough to undertake the former, 
and members by their liberal purchase of tickets show them- 
selves willing to bear the brunt of the latter, we believe 
that only the best results to the Club can spring from well 
conducted winter amusements. Now the aim and object of the 
winter sport, be it Ball, Concert, Dinner or Dramatics, is to 
collect for an agreeable purpose, and make known to each 
other our members and their friends from all quarters of 
the wide domain of the L.B.O. It follows, therefore, that 
the cap and bells should not be donned without purpose, 
and that the show may be more than vox et prosterea nihil 
it is, we think, quite necessary to attend to two or three points 



of detail. Firstly, we hold it to be a crucial error to over- 
do the entertainment of whatever sort it may be. Now 
that the Committee has taken from D.C/s the organising of 
Smoking Concerts in their various departments this is leas 
likely to recur. Again, almost as necessay as the provision 
of good music for an audience is a careful attention to 
ventilation, acoustics, and facility of locomotion, and we 
venture to hope that our Sub-Committee will remember it 
is but an unprofitable evening that is spent by an unhappy 
member penned immovably in a corner and there saturated 
with carbonic acid, music, and tobacco smoke. These then 
are a few of the details connected with winter amusements, 
but as many others will occur to old members with experi- 
ence more varied than our own, we shall look forward to an 
edifying enlivenment of our dull season. 

ANNUAL DINNER. 
This event of the winter is fixed for Wednesday, 2l8t 
November, at the St. James's Hall Restaurant, Piccadilly. 
Special attention will be paid to the menu. Particulars 
will appear later on. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 

LACR03SE. 

I wish to acknowledge in these columns my thanks as 
plainly as I did my complaints with reference to the Lacrosse,' 
and to express my thanks to the Secretary of the Clapton 
Lacrosse Club, Tor kindly informing all his L.B.C. members 
that the opening practice had been postponed. 

Theo. Godlee, N.E. D.C. 



Digitized by 



Google 



226 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



S.E. MEETS FOR OCTOBER. 
Saturday, 6th October.— 4.15, Westerham: Tea 6 o'clock, 

at "King's Arms/' 
Saturday, 13th October.— 3.45, Brighton (full moon). Inn, 

" TheGloster." 
Saturday, 20th October.— 4,15, Bletchingley. Tea 6 o'clock, 

" White Hart." 
Saturday, 27th October.— 4.15, Orpington. Tea 6 o'clock, 

" Maxwell Arms " (near the Station.) 

The above runs have been arranged with a view to meeting 
the wants of those men who do not wish to give up riding 
already. Members may rely on there being someone at the 
starting place, Katharine Street, at the times named. 

R. G. Fbai^cis, District Captain. 

SATURDAY RUNS. 



N.E. DlflTEIOT. 

29th Sept. There was very bitter disappointment to 
those who were looking for extensive events on Saturday in 
the miserable state of the weather, which had been very 
bad, and was very threatening about the time the Districts 
were leaving home ; consequently only three members and 
a visitor started together, the visitor riding a tricycle 
to which he was not very much used. The pace at first 
was decidedly slow by the tramlines and Snaresbrook, and 
then the weather began to carry out its threats in good 
earnest. Shortly after George Lane, Ernest Barrett and 
his terrier were sighted on foot, and accompanied the run 
a short distance ; then Kelsey and the D.C. determined 
to get on a little faster, leaving Lloyd and his brother 
to come on somewhat slower. The leading couple fell in 
with the Treasurer also on foot, as his arm is not quite well 
yet, and he, too, following his custom at the Race Meeting, 
raced the riders some way. The rain had slightly abated 
by this time, and the D.C. having deposited Kelsey at the 
** White Hart," Abridge, where he speedily acquired the 
landlord's garments, returned to pick up the brethren and 
try to get dry in the effort. When the second instalment 
arrived, there was a feeling that five and Ernest Barrett 
might do, though poor for a final meet, and Weeks was 
warmly greeted when he came in drenched, though shortly 
after, Baldwin next turned up, having come partly by train, 
and then the Captain and Lyne rode in, making double 
figures. A very satisfactory tea was quickly dispatched, 
and a fire lighted, and then the company settled down to 
an hour or so of intellectual amusement, S. G. Hough turning 
up with reports of having a nasty spill, just as the Lloyd 
brothers decided to start. Hough's machine appeared badly 
damaged, so he joined the walking party, and the balance 
of five retreated quietly homewards in a good deal of 
drizzle. Present : Ashley Barrett, Ernest Barrett, Baldwin, 
R. B. Hough, S. G. Hough, Kelsey, Lloyd, Lyne, Weeks, 
one visitor, and TuEO. Godlee, District Captain. 



W. District. 

I think I comprised the West and South-West Districts 
on Saturday. I left home in the morning, and going by 
Kingston had lunch at the Anchor at Ripley, and afterwards 
rode by Newland's Corner and Gomshall to Dorking and 
Leatherhead, which I reached at 5.15. After waiting an 
hour, and drawing all the inns, not excepting the inhospit- 
able "Swan," I ordered tea at the "Bull's Head," and at 
7.30 proceeded homewards by Ewell and Wimbledon. It 
began to rain heavily while I was at tea, and continued all 
the way. This is not the first time I have represented these 
districts at Leatherhead. Roads splendid. No rain till 
6.30 p.m. 

J. S. Whattok. 



N.W. DiSTEicrr. 
Last Saturday's run was a wet one, but that ought not 
to be any excuse for the very small muster. At Tally Ho ! 
the thought was entertained for a few minutes that just as 
much profit would be derived from a retrogade movement 
as by carrying out the programme, but we could not afford 
any more blank runs, so on over unusually wet roads, this 
martyr rode to Mill Hill, got off, turned round, emptied 
the rain out of his shoes and rode home. Present : 

A. H. LowK, District Captain. 



I would take this opportunity of thanking those men 
who have given me such enegetic support, and have thus 
tended to make our meets such a success. Our district is 
making immense and rapid strides, and although to the 
ordinary observer this may not be visible ; and I have not 
the slightest hesitation in saying that if next year should 
fulfil the promises Iteld out by the actions of this, we shall 
be able to show an unprecedented average in the annals 
of the L.B.C. for attendance. Now that the season's work 
is fresh in the memory it would be a good thing to make 
suggestions concerning the N.W. meets, that whoever is in 
office next year should have the benefit of them. 

A. H. LowN, District Captain. 



S.W. District. 
September 29th. — A large and distinguished company 
appeared on Kingston Bridge at 4.10, and after several 
preliminary runs round the Market Place to pick up members, 
the Meet started at 4.40 in a heavy shower for Leatherhead. 
Half a mile from the start, shelter was taken under a tree, 
and after some discussion, it was resolved to change the run, 
and proceed to Ba^rnes vid Kingston Hill and the Roehampton 
Lane. This new route was carried out in a storm of rain. 
Present : the Reporter, J. Gatey, and a " Coventry Rotary." 
Query, Where was the District Captain? Query, Where 
were the other members ? Joseph Gatey. 



Digitized by 



j 

LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE, 227 



S.R District. 
The last meet of the year seemed to touch a sympathetic 
chord in the breast of not a few on Saturday, and that in 
spite of the weather not being of the most propitious order. 
Threatening it certainly did look at the time fixed for the 
start from Croydon, and in the locality of Blackheath it 
did more than threaten ; for a storm of rain and hail came 
down in such earnest as to deter anyone but the most 
intrepid from venturing out. However, South East energy 
rose to the occasion with an effect that was quite astounding. 
Beck and the D. C. rode over by Sanderstead and took up 
up a position of vantage on the top of Godstone Hill. 
As they directed their gaze down towards Caterham, 
winding up the hill there appeared a long thin line of grey, 
which gradually resolved itself into a formidable array 
of no less than eighteen men. Among the first to 
become recognisable were Barker and J. G. Oswald on 
the double tricycle, then the three heroes of Stamford 
Bridge, and shortly after six stalwart forms — a veritable 
band of brothers — showed that the great Potter demon- 
stration was, so to speak, a fait accompli. While an 
exhibition of the tandem, its merits and peculiarities, was 
being carried on outside the "Clayton Arms" (no extra 
charge), the stragglers came in apace. The O'Reilly rode 
in from Brighton, F. B. Smith from Sevenoaks. It was not 
long before they were all assembled in the old room which 
has become associated with the memories of so many last 
meets of the season. After some practice in the first rule 
of arithmetic it was discovered that tlie party consisted of 
no less than thirty members and three visitors. As three 
men had not stayed for tea the district record was tied," 
and the question whether it would be beaten or not was 
for sometime held in the balance. Tea was over, and the 
customary tribute to the "setting sun" having been paid 
by the ex-D.C. in a speech brimming over with eloquence 
and bristling with compliments, when Hume Young, 
apparently with an eye to dramatic e£fect, stepped into 
the room, and was instantly greeted with ringing cheers 
which must ha?e awakened the ghostly tenant of the 
haunted chamber if he was dosing at the moment. The 
absence of a pianist was much to be deprecated; still, 
songs and recitations were the order of the day, the efforts 
of J. C. Oswald, J. F. Potter, and H. 6. A. Brown being 
warmly applauded. "Auld lang syne" brought the 
evening to its close. After such a successful Meet, 
who could grumble at the rain and darkness going 
home — for it did rain, and it was dark. On starting, the 
long procession of lamps seemed to reach from the Inn to 
the top of the hill. At Whiteleaf, the Blackheath Division 
turned off, and by eleven all parties had reached home — or 
ought to have done. Present : Barker, Beck, Belfield, 
C. A. Brown, H. G. A. Brown, Church, Day, Gerich, 
Halliday, Hartridge, Alf. Herbert, Arthur Herbert, S. 
Herbert, McRae, Morley, The O'Reilly, J. C. Oswald, W. 



0. Oswald, C. E. Parker, A. L. Potter, L. Potter, J. F. 
Potter, J. W. Potter, L. B. Reynolds, J. H. Scrutton, Sharp, 
F. B. Smith, S. P. Smith, E. F. Smither, S. E. Whealler, 
F. H. Williams, J. B. Young, J. W. Young, three visitors^ 
and R. 6. FiXANCis, District Captain. 



HONOUR TO WHOM HONOUR, 
Every member of the Club who takes the least interest 
in its welfare will be glad to read an account of the 
enthusiastic exhibtion of feeling which was displayed on 
Saturday last in the well-known room on the first floor of 
the " Clayton Arms " at Godstone. 

It was the concluding run of the season — of the South- 
East season ; the weather had been anything but fine in 
the morning, and the afternoon sun was obscured by dull 
grey clouds ; still, the roads were not so very bad, and 
most of us hoped to be able to count a quarter of a century 
of members at all events. By the time tea was commenced 
thirty-three had actually arrived, and at the conclusion of 
a vigorous half hour's cup-emptying and knife and fork 
exercise, one of the members rose to say a few words on 
behalf of the South-East District in recognition of the 
great services rendered^by the Distdct Captain during his 
year of office. 

He said it was a pleasant thing to have the privilege 
of addressing the members present on that occasion, because 
their to-day's run marked the close of the most successful 
season of any District in any year since the Club was 
formed. Record for a club run had that day been equalled, 
and, perhaps, before the evening was over would even be 
beaten, and the average attendance record had been alto- 
gether smashed on the head, for the average number of 
members at each meet during the season was no less than 
15J, a truly satisfactory proof of the interest felt in the 
runs. To what was all this mainly due but to the energy, 
popularity, and able leading of their District Captain, R. G. 
Francis ? The men came, not simply because they were asked 
oyer and over again — as was proved by the large number of 
regular attendants—but because .they took a real pleasure 
in runs so well chosen, and the arrangements of which were 
so well looked after ; because they delighted to combine 
friendly interchange of thought with healthy exercise of 
body, and knew that if they wanted to get pleasure out of 
a run they could not do better than follow their good 
leader. Nor was it only on account of his success as 
District Captain that he had been so popular ; his contri- 
butions to our Gazette were of a very high order, and his 
usefulness to the Club in this respect was much greater 
than most people imagined. Nature had blessed him with 
a facile pen, and if he ever had a mind to try he would not 
find it difficult to make a name in the world of letters. 
He (the speaker) read an extract from a letter he had 
received from the Editor of the Gazette referring in terms 
of warm praise to the value of the writings of R. G. Francis. 



Digitized by 



228 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



There waa one point more upon which he felt bound to 
touch, and that was the District Captaincy of 1884. He 
had spoken to several members upon the subject, and was 
convinced he was expressing the feeling of the whole Dis- 
trict when he said he hoped most sincerely that the present 
District Captain would consent to hold the position for 
another year. This was no mere compliment ; it was a 
spontaneous and very earnest desire, and though the tenure 
of the office brought a great deal of work with it, and in- 
volved the sacrifice of much time (which would be par- 
ticularly felt during a second season) he trusted that 
the very fact of such a brilliant success having been 
achieved would weigh as ^ powerful argument in favour of 
a compliance with the District's undoubted wish. In 
conclusion, the speaker thanked the District Captain most 
heartily in the name of the whole District for the many 
good things he had done and said for it. 

The cheers that were' then given for the evening's hero 
were loud and long, and before (they had had time to 
subside he got up, and in a few telling sentences 
thanked the members for the way they had received 
what had been said about him. He desired to call 
particular attention to the support he had received 
from some of the men of his district, notably the 
Oswalds, the Herberts, and S. E. Whealler, the latter 
having won the attendance medal The S.E. District had, 
he said, during the present year more than maintained 
their reputation on the racing path ; the/ held the District 
Challenge Cup, the Ladies' Challenge Cup, and, but for 
their efiforts, the matches against the Universities would 
have been defeats instead of victories. He anticipated 
great things from the young rising S.E. racing men, and 
as to the attendances at the meets, he only hoped that 
next year they would be better even than this. 

Soon after this, and while we were blowing clouds and 
enjoying song, there was a rattle and sort of scuffle at the 
door. The trusty Stephen was dragging in another mem- 
ber, and terrific cheers and shouts were heard because 
record was thus beaten, and the red-letter day for Club 
meets was now fixed for the 29th September, 1883. 

" Auld Lang Syne " was the signal for the breaking up 
of our party, and everyone went home pleased with the 
memory of the season now over, pleased at the prospect of 
an equally agreeable one next year, and, moreover, pleased 
at the thought that he — ^yes, he himself— had been the 
beater of record, for without any one of us would it not 
have been a tie ? 

Happy S.K District ! H. G. A. Beown. 



WHY WE DON'T COME, 
We all know the economical use to which ''good 
intentions ''-are generally supposed to be put in another 
place, and we also know that ''excuses" are a class of 
literature not always very politely spoken of ; and it has 



sometimes occurred to this deponent how much the average 
D.C. has to answer for in these two directions. 

In the first place, how often does the postcard, or personal 
application of the D.C, induce a member who generally 
absents himself really to intend to come,'' an intention which 
he either expresses to the official in question, or records in 
the proper repository to be duly discarded when the time 
comes. Well this is bad enough, and the habit of not 
carrying out these intentions is enough to make a reason- 
ably energetic official shudder ; but it is nothing to his 
responsibilities in the second category. '' Why don't you 
come out ? " is a natural enough question. The hope of 
cornering a man and extorting a promise to attend is well 
worth the trouble ; but, there, the habitual non-attender is 
never cornered. Long '^practice has made him much too 
clever for that. It is probable that for the whole season, 
or longer, he has had a series of varied — ^very varied — 
''reasons," he never admits they are "excuses," for not 
attending. One day some friends were coming to tennis, 
and " his people " would have made such a row if he had 
come ; another, he did think he could have come, but his 
old friend What's-his-name begged him to play in the 
" old Who-do-you-call-it's " cricket match because he was 
in such a hole, and how could he decline ? If it hadn't 
been the old Who-do-you-call-it's he would have come, 
of course ; and so on to the end of the chapter. The river 
makes men more callous ; they admit that they have 
" taken to the river," and clear off a lot of runs at one go 
in that fashion ; and the man of many friends is also a 
very difficult subject to tackle — they always are "particular 
friends," and give some quite "original" point to the 
delinquent's absence, till the D.C. is tempted to wonder — 
is " there a nearer one still and a dearer one," as the poet 
has put it in rather a different connection. 

Another class of member has a difficulty with his machine 
week after week. The excuses vary — something is bent ; 
the maker will not return it ; the tyre is off, or loose ; a 
young brother has been letting it fall et hoc genus omne. 
And then we have, though we hardly like to admit it, the 
man whose machine is a bright one, so he doesn't like to 
bring it out in the rain. It is a poor excuse, and deceives 
no one ; but there are few but the very regular attenders who 
believe that bad weather does not spoil a run. It doesn't, 
or at least anyone who attends a Club run on a wet day 
says so, and the very fact that so many men are unwilling 
to admit mere weather as a " reason " tends to show that 
they hardly feel it a sufficient one, yet we fear that it is 
after all one chief and prime cause of absence with all but 
the incorrigible. 

I cannot close without one more; it is unique but 
picturesque, and it is genuine. The member deeply regrets, 
but he has observed three large spider's webs of antique 
structure spun in and among the spokes of his bicycle, and 
from back to front wheel. Of course he can't move the 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



229 



machine, as it would probably occasion a dreadful catas- 
trophe if the spider family were at home ; he has therefore 
sent in a formal notice to quit, which he trusts will receive 
due attention and save legal expense — and in the meantime 
his D.G. waits expectant. Ooethe. 

To the Editor of the London Bicych Club Gazette, 
Sir, — I was sorry to see it expressly assumed by the 
writer of the leading article in the Gazette of Sept. 20th 
(which I have only just seen) that road racing is in itself 
positively illegal. I believe that to ensure a conviction 
under the Highway Act, either an obstruction must be 
proved, or else furious driving " to the common danger** 
As neither of these annoyances to the public seem to have 
been caused even by the late open tricycle road races, I 
should doubt whether the police authorities have not acted 
ultra vires in issuing their recent notice. I am by no 
means defending open road races on principle, but I do 
think it a great pity to assume, as the writer of the above 
mentioned article appears to assume, that we have been 
breaking the law for the last seven years. I think that 
bicyclists and tricyclists are, as a class, the best behaved 
and most careful of wayfarers, and that they are generally 
too timid in asserting their rights. — Yours, etc., 

D. T. C. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — I should like, with your permission, to add a few 
notes to the very interesting accounts which have lately 
appeared in your columns. 

1. Leeming Lane, far from being habitually bad, has 
the reputation of being one of the best roads in Yorkshire. 
Certainly nothing could have been much better than it was 
in the summer of '79. 

2. A traveller between Harrogate and Bipon should on 
no account omit, as your correspondent seems to have done, 
seeing Fountain's Abbey, which stands only some two miles 
off the road. 

3. In Ripon '* Yorkshire Pudding " is tojbe had at[its best. 

4. The farmers were quite right in saying that the Ash- 
bourne road from Buxton is the best in the neighbourhood, 
and it did not strike me as so very execrable. 

5. So ardent a bather should not have missed the Buxton 
swimming bath ; it is a particularly enjoyable one. 

6. The Punch and Judy show at the same place well 
deserves the tribute paid to it. It is, without exception, the 
finest thing in the whole range of the P. and J. profession. 

7. Stoueleigh Abbey, as well as Warwick Castle, is shown, 
and is well worth waiting for. 

8. The road between Bath and Wells is no more direct 
by Radstock than by Marksbury and High Littleton, each 
being twenty miles. The former goes right over Coombe 
Down, and is extremely hilly all the way. For the latter, 



go along either Bristol road and turn to the left at the 
"Globe Inn." 

9. The " Old George" at Glastonbury, though picturesque, 
is not at all a good place at which to have dinner. 

10. At Taunton the C. T. C. house is, I believe, good, 
but is quite eclipsed by the Coffee Palace which is indeed 
palatial, and is much more used by bicyclists. 

11. The reason why cider is difficult to get in Devon and 
Somerset in August is that the old is finished and the new 
not yet brewed. I have sometimes enquired in vain at three 
or four places in succession. 

12. Exeter to Dawlish I should have said was one of the 
best bits in South Devon. Perhaps the epithet "most 
hilly" applies only to the rest of the way to Torquay, 
which is so. — Yours truly, J. S. W. 

AN AIMLESS RAMBLE. 

(GONTIKUBD FROM PAOI 210.) 

On the following morning I got up at 7.30, having had a 
grand sleep for 9} hours, and while digesting my breakfast 
I roamed through the town of Olney in search of the 
picturesque. I regret to say that my search was ineffectual, 
the only noteworthy object being a shop window filled with 
memorials of Cowper, who, it appears, was bom here, in the 
shape of wooden pincushions and needlebooks ; the con- 
nection between poetry and haberdashery was not so obvious 
as to make me anxious to take any away with me. 

The road to Northampton was a succession of slopes for 
two miles, then level till it sejoined the main road, which I had 
left overnight. The surface was fair to within two or three miles 
of Northampton, when it got very bumpy and wet. I walked 
through the town, which I found quite as unpleasant as usual. 
I have always thought that if the lower classes in that 
abode of lasts were to wash more and swear less the 
casual stranger might find the town more attractive than 
it is at present. As I had already been to Leicester through 
Market Harborough, I thought I would try the alternative 
route through Welford, which turns to the left 1^ miles out 
of the town. The surface was splendid at first, in fact it 
was good all the way to Leicester; there was, however, 
hardly a level hundred yards for several miles, slope following 
slope in almost endless succession, though none of them 
were severe, with the exception of one about a mile in 
length near Spratton, which the heat made rather un- 
pleasant. I stopped at Thomby (24), and again at 
Wigston (40), both times for a drink, the weather being far 
too hot for solid food. Leicester I had the misfortune to 
find en fite, the town being full of circuses, volunteers, 
and other festive folk ; the result was that all the women 
of the town had turned out, each with four or five 
babies, and planted themselves in a double line down 
the gutter of the main street. I should think there 
were 25,000 babies present on that occasiob, and all 
of them we^e yelUng I I was glad when I found myself 



Digitized by 



230 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



outside the town ; I don't like babies. The surface to 
Loughborough was fair, with a bumpy half mile or so here 
and there ; there were a few pretty stiff slopes, but after 
Mount Sorrel the road became more level. At Lough- 
borough I turned to the right for Nottingham, the turning 
iu the (own being rather hard to find. With the exception 
of a few clear spaces the road was very loose the whole way 
into Nottingham, almost dangerously so in parts ; but the 
M.I.P. steadied the machine wonderfully, and quite did 
away with a slight tendency to kick, which is one of the 
very few faults it possesses. There is a bad hill down at 
Bunney, very steep, and covered with loose stones ; this is 
the only one that needs a dismount between Loughborough 
and Nottingham. Two traction engines with a number of 
waggons were standing at the top, having apparently just 
climbed the hill ; though how they managed it I put 
down as being " one of those things which no fellow can 
understand." I put up in Nottingham at the "Wellington" 
(C.T.C.), which was comfortable but very noisy, being situate 
just opposite the Midland Station ; the result was, I slept 
about one hour out of the whole night. Distance for day, 
68 miles. 

Next morning it was raining hard and showed no signs 
of clearing up till past noon, when I started for Mansfield 
in a slight shower. Trusting too much to my former recol- 
lections of the town I took a wrong turning, and had gone 
a mile or so along the Alfreton Road before I discovered my 
mistake ; but after burrowing about in back slums for some 
time I emerged on the Mansfield Road with the determi- 
nation to make more use of my tongue for the future. 
There are three or four slopes up out of Nottingham with 
slight falls in between, the surface being extremely bad, 
partly, I daresay, owing to the rain, but chiefly to the very 
sparing use of the stone-breaker's hammer. I suppose we 
must wait till the millenium for parish authorities to find 
out that stones as big as melons are not the best things 
wherewith to make a highway. After Redhill (5) the surface 
got better, and the improvement became more marked as I 
advanced further into Sherwood Forest— or, rather that 
country which once was Sherwood Forest, for a great portion 
has been transformed into arable land, or, at all events, 
despoiled of its finest timber. Six miles from Mansfield 
there is a long slope up, about two miles in length, with a 
very loose bit in the middle, and then after a fall there is a 
second rise of about three quarters of a mile covered with 
stones from top to bottom. Judging from the small amount 
of traffic I saw on the road, I should say there is a great pro- 
bability that the next generation will find it in precisely the 
same condition. At this pointthe weather and the roads, and 
the fact that I had nothing to eat since breakfast, combined 
to make me look anxiously about for some means of getting 
a meal, but houses there were none, so in despair I took 
refuge in a pipe, which I have often found to be by no 
means a bad way of appeasing a hunger which cannot be 



gratified. At last Mansfield was reached, and a large tea 
being quickly disposed of I began to consider what part of 
of the world I should make for next. I was assisted in my 
deliberations by two Yorkshiremen, who said the Rother- 
ham Road was very bad, and advised me to make for 
Chesterfield. It turned out on cross-examination that 
their remarks applied to the paths at the side and not to 
the roads themselves, and, in fact, they seemed rather 
puzzled that I should want any information at all about 
the latter. But it is only over Lancashire cobbles that my 
morality utterly vanishes, and accordingly I scorned their 
suggestions. Chesterfield, however, seemed a comfortable 
distance, so I took their advice and the left-hand road in 
the town. For the first two miles it was level, but almost 
immediately after entering Derbyshire the hills began, and 
continued all the way to Chesterfield. There was only one, 
however, up which I had to walk, viz., a long ascent, loose 
and steep at the bottom, about eight miles from Mansfield. 
The surface was bad the whole way, but I was in that con- 
tented state of mind which takes no account of bad roads, 
and endured the joltings with an equanimity begotten of 
much tea and buttered toast. The scenery was very pretty 
to within two miles of Chesterfield, where I entered the 
black country, which, with its tall chimneys, roaring furnaces, 
and mountains of ashes, presents an appearance rather in- 
teresting than beautiful. I reached Chesterfield at six, and 
made my way to the Angel " in the market place, then, 
having changed my clothes and borrowed a prayerbook from 
the landlady, went to church. The building is, as the 
guidebooks say, " by no means destitute of architectural 
pretensions," but is chiefly noticeable on account of its 
spire, which is twisted and distorted in a most remarkable 
manner, so that, says Paterson, "it appears to lean in 
whatever direction it is approached." One side is marked 
by a large dint, as though it had been struck by an 
enormous hammer. Report says that the builder com- 
mitted suicide as soon as he had finished it, declaring that 
the work of his life was accomplished, for he could never 
build another spire to touch it. And I do not think he 
could. The town is quaint and old-fashioned, with steep 
winding streets which rather reminded lae of Durham. 
After supper I was lucky enough to fall in with a traveller 
who seemed to be a sort of polyglot Mudie on the roam, 
for producing Moliere's Plays, Scott's Novels, and Faust 
from his bag, he offered me any I liked to read. I read 
half a play and then, having interviewed the landlord, 
boots, and ostler on the subject of the weather, went 
gloomily to bed, because they persisted in asserting that 
the following day would be fine. Distance for day, 28 miles. 

Monday, 6th. Of course it was raining when I got up ; 
that ill-omened prophecy the night before had irritated the 
Clerk of the Weather, and he had turned on the tap to 
show how little he cared for morbal prognostications. 
Having examined my map at breakfast, I decided on going 



Digitized by V^O^^ltT 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



231 



to Sheffield, and had no reason to grumble at the road for 
several miles. It led through a series of mining villages 
for the first four miles, the inhabitants of which — ^it being 
Bank Holiday — were engaged in sports and pastimes of 
various descriptions, each of the men having a dog at his 
heels and a bludgeon under his arm — ^two unvarying 
accompaniments of the miner out for a holiday. The 
surface was by no means bad and the hills slight, though 
as I got near Sheffield they became steeper. All the way 
the natural beauty of the country was spoilt by the smoke 
and cinders of the mines, ** cloud-capped towers " rising as 
far as the eye could see ; only the " towers " were brick 
chimneys and the "clouds" poured out of their tops. 
About two miles from Sheffield the rain, which hitherto 
had been slight, came down in torrents, and in a few 
minutes I was wet through; this made me cross, for 
when I want a bath I prefer having it in private and 
undressing first ; to use the Queen's high road as a 
common shower bath struck me as showing a want of 
respect to Her Majesty's possessions. Induced by these 
excellent reasons, I made up my mind to seek fresh fields and 
pastures new where there was less rain and fewer bumps. 
Sheffield, as seen through a vista of falling rain, struck me 
as being the most unpleasant town I had ever been in ; 
for miles and miles there is nothing but paving stones and 
tramlines, the former being very greasy. I walked through 
the town, having put on my saddle-cover, which is, in my 
opinion, a greater blessing than even " the Pickwick, 
the Owl, and the Waverley Pen." Having reached the 
centre of the town I stopped at the " King's Head" (B.T.C), 
where I could get no fire to dry my things, and only got a 
drink after a long delay. Being anxious not to leave a tag 
on my map I decided to make for the nearest place I knew, 
and then, if the weather was no better, to take the train 
home. I accordingly started for Doncaster and walked 
nearly the whole way to Rotherham (6 miles), the road 
being at first greasy paving stones, and then without 
exception the worst macadam I have ever been on. By 
dint of sitting on my M.I.P., however, and riding carefully, 
I managed to avoid being thrown off, and the mere thought 
that I was leaving Sheffield was enough to console me to a 
great extent. Nowadays, if anyone irritates me, I do 
not indulge in Saxon expletives, but merely tell them to 
" go to Sheffield ; " if I am in a great rage, I add ** on a 
wet day." Human malice cannot add an3rthing to the 
latter wish. 

After Rotherham the road got softer and less bumpy, 
with two or three stiff hills ; but having at last got away 
from mines and factories I felt equal to any amount of 
mud, which was just as well, as I had plenty of it. About 
five miles from Rotherham a long up-hill begins, the top of 
which is not reached for more than three miles ; after this 
it is falling ground all the way into Doncaster, a distance 
of four miles. The road improved after the top of the hill, 



and the sun having come out and the rain left off, I found 
the last four miles very pleasant. I stopped at the 
" Elephant " in Doncaster for some lunch, where I found 
everything very good and the people most attentive. The 
town was full of horses — ^a fair being held there that day — 
and as one man was generally considered enough to lead 
twelve or thirteen animals, every street presented a scene 
of hopeless'confusion. Having now joined my tag, I held 
myself at liberty to take the train if I chose, but the evening 
seemed likely to turn out fine, so I again changed my mind 
and rode south for Bawtry, where I turned to the left for 
Gainsborough, in Lincolnshire. The Great North Road 
was perfectly dry, and seemed like a cinder path after the 
bumps of the morning ; and though the surface grew rather 
worse after Bawtry, yet the beauty of the country made 
amends for that. Eight miles from Gainsborough there was 
a steep up-hill, from the top of which there ought to have 
been a good view but was not. It was 7.30 by the time I 
reached Gainsborough, but as the next place at which I 
could get a bed would be Lincoln (20 miles), and having 
besides a general distrust of Lincolnshire roads, I deter- 
mined to stay where I was, and accordingly put up at the 
" White Hart." Gainsborough struck me as being one of 
the quietest, most out-of-the-way places I had ever seen. 
As the only way of accounting for the total absence of 
population, I asked the landlady if the town had been 
visited with a pestilence ; but as she said it had not, I put 
the matter down as a social conundrum, to be thought out 
in leisure moments. Distance for day, 52 miles. 

Tuesday, 7th. I was anxious to leave Gainsborough by 
the Market Raisin Road — ^that is to say, go due east for 
about ten miles, until I reached the London and Hull Road, 
then to turn down it to Lincoln ; unfortunately, however, 
there happened to be a number of cross-roads leading direct 
to Lincoln, and as the natives had never heard of Market 
Raisin, and could not understand my wishing to go round 
by the main road, I was led a fine dance through the town 
before I found a man intelligent enough to understand what 
I wanted. He told me there was not a better road in the 
kingdom than the Market Raisin one ; and if the good man 
spoke true, I am afraid the kingdom must be in a very bad 
way, for I found the road about as rough as they make them, 
composed chiefly of huge rocks partially submerged in a sort 
of whitish clay, not unlike oolite. After reaching the Hull 
Road, and turning to the right for Lincoln, the surface grew 
slightly better, but the whole way it was shaky, and com- 
municated that unceasing vibration to the machine 
which is felt in going over badly set wood pavement, 
and which is even more annoying I think than the occa- 
sional jolts in macadam. The road was perfectly straight 
with a slope here and there, and a fine panorama of 
the ugliest country in England extending on both sides. 
For miles and miles not a human being was in sight, but 
at last I caught up a tourist who, with guidebook and 



Digitized by 



232 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



timbrella, was tramping along the grass at the side of the 
road. I concluded he was searching for mushrooms, for I 
could see no other "objects of interest in the locality" 
where he was. Five miles, out I caught sight of Lincoln 
cathedral, far ahead, jast at the point where the two sides 
of the road seemed to meet in one. On entering the city 
I was surprised to find it so small and quiet, but after 
passing through the cathedral close I discovered that the 
real town, with its legion of chimneys, lay in a valley at 
the foot of the hill on which the cathedral stands. The 
south front of the cathedral, being the one turned towards 
•the town, is very finely carved, and would well repay a 
lengthy inspection. 

(To be cofUinued). 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his qmlls 
when he would attacl^ or defend himself, but Diosoorides affirmeth it a 
point of foUy to belieye it."— Sir T. Browkb. 

The Naylor who entered for the Tennis Tournament was 
H.S., the Naylor who won it, according to our last issue 
was W. E. Somebody has " got mixed ! " It is to be 
hoped that the brothers will not get so mixed up by other 
people as to share the same fate as ** The Twins." 

• «•••• 

The member who received three cheers as he was leaving 
the festive party at Godstone last Saturday, would have 
been happy to have returned to the cries of " Speech/* but 
it always takes him a month to prepare one worth listening 
to, and when he is in possession of the house it is his wont 
to make so long a pause after "-Gentlemen" that his hearers 
generally advise him to "sit down '* ; this, of course he can 
do as well as anybody — but he doesn't though — the unfeel- 
ing wretch next to him has pulled his chair away. Tableau- 

• »•••« 

I hope all our members are bearing in mind the 2l8t of 
November, the day consecrated to our Annual Dinner, and 
are not already occupying it with those " pressing engage- . 
ments '* which often rob us of the presence of our most 
vdued members. 

«•«*•• 

I hear that " W. X. W." is preparing a crushing reply to 
Queries published recently. 

The costumes at Abridge] were varied and picturesque, 
but the landlord must be a stouter man than Weeks. 

• *«••« 

The South-East are to be congratulated on their brilliant 
effort last Saturday, when thirty-four men of the District 
attended the Godstone Meet 

«••«•• 

Last year the same number attended the opening run to 
Orpington,. but this included members of other Districts; 



and according to an Echo^by "Rambler," 34 men also 
represented the S.B. at Hampton Court in 1878, but in the 
account in Vol. I. of the Gazette the number b given as 32. 

So that R. G. Francis, as far as having brought out the 
largest number of S.R members, has beaten the record ; and 
that it was accomplished on such a miserable day as was 
Saturday is very much to his credit 

»•«««• 

Hume Young was determined to put in an appearance at 
all hazards, and though delayed late in town he rode over 
from Croydon in rain and darkness. 

«««*«« 

Some who were unable to be present in body seemed to 
be there in the spirit Doubtless the S.E. D.C. of 1880, 
amid the luxury and refinement of the " gilded salons of 
the Continent," was pining for the simplicity of the veal 
and ham of the Clayton Arms." 

The Club scholiast was to the fore, as usual. " V&nisti 
tandem f" he asked of the Zulu as he descended from 
Rucker's latest prodigy. " Oh, rather," replied-the versatile 
one, " only fancy my knowing so much Latin." 

• ••«•• 

Several gallant but unsuccessful attempts were made to 
reach Godstone. Among them was that of Faxon of the 
N.W., who, after spending a pleasant evening among the 
wilds of Banstead, relinquished the idea, and returned home 
a sadder if not a wiser man. 

««•«*« 

The N.E muster at the last meet of the season seemed 
strangely incomplete without the presence^ of Damon and 
Fythias — ^no, I mean Gibbs and Long. 

The next Council Meeting of the National Cyclists' 
Union is fixed for Thursday, October 11th, when, amongst 
other things, a very important proposal with regard to 
Frofessional Racing will come up for discussion. 

POECUPINB. 



RACING FIXTURES. 

Bule 40 enacts that no member represent the Club at any race meeting 
without permission from the Captain. The following list of Racing 
Fixtures has been submitted to the Captain, who sanctions car 
members racing at any of the meetings mentioned. Any member 
wishing to ride at any meeting not included in this list is requested 
to communicate with the Captain. 

Oct. 6.— Stoke Unity B. and T.C. Sports. 
27.— L.A.C., at Stamford Bridge. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
AU contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C,/' and must bear the name of the author, thou^ not 
necessarily for insertion. They must be written on one aide of the 

Eaper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be receiyed not 
iter than Tuesday evening. 

Printed for the Prop- letors by Dablinq & Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, E.G.— October 4, 1888. 



Digitized by 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VL No. 32.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



November 1, 1883. 



The Annual Dinner 

Notices 

October Rnns in the South-East 

Unofficial Rnn in the N.W 

The Boxing Day Paperchase . . . . 
Leayes from the Diary of a D.C. . 



CONTENTS 

FAGB 
233 



234 
235 
235 
236 
236 



PAGE 



Cambridge Not€« 237 

Correspondence 237 

A Ride Across France into Switzerland 288 

All Round the Wheel 239 

Quills - 240 

Notice to Correspondents 240 



The next Gazette tvill be published on Thursday^ November 
29th, Contributions intended foi* it must be received 
before 6 p.m. on Tuesday, November 27th, 



THE ANNUAL DINNER. 

The mention of a Club Ball has upon some of our 
members a rather similar effect to that which a red rag is 
supposed to have on a bull. Like Polyphemus, "they rage, 
they melt, they bum," and will not be satisfied till some 
opponent has figuratively bit the dust. The title at the 
head of this column is not indeed such a stormy petrel, but 
will awaken widely different feelings in different members. 
There is the severe ascetic — "The London Bicycle Club 
was formed to bicycle, and not to dine, to dance, or to play 
tenuis." This class of member looks with some suspicion 
on Club Teas as relaxations from the narrow ways of cycling 
virtue to primrose paths of dalliance ; last year's Picnics in 
the South- West filled him with horror, and he was found 
at Stamford Bridge last month in a state of collapse at the 
idea of La Crosse and Lawn Tennis appearing in the pro- 
gramme of the London Bicycle Club. However, he is not 
so dangerous as he looks, and will doubtless bury the 
hatchet and smoke the pipe of peace in St. James's Hall 
without audible complaint or serious qualms of conscience. 

li\ great contrast to him is the sybarite of bicycling, who 
regards the bicycle club mainly as an instrument for pro- 
curing forms of amusement other than bicycling. Dear to 
him is the Lawn Tennis Tournament, a little marred by the 



proviso that ties should not be played off on Saturdays. He 
always has six lady's tickets for the Race Meeting, and is 
resplendent at the S.E. Ball, while the Dramatic Society 
considers him one of its pillars. Indeed, were it not for 
these little diversions, many members of the Club would 
be unaware of his existence. Needless to say, he considers the 
Club Dinner an admirable institution, if only there was not 
quite so much " wheel " in the speeches. 

Between these extremes we find the moderate member, 
who, if we are not mistaken, regards a well managed Club 
Dinner as a very desirable thing. There is a good old 
custom, unfortunately fading away before the influence of 
scientific farming, by which after the last sheaves have come 
to the barn in the laden waggon in the mellow light of the 
harvest moon, farmer and labourers, all who have shared in 
the work, sit down to the Harvest Supper and toast their 
" Harvest Home." So at the end of our season of sport, 
when the last meets have met, and the few last postcards of 
the District Captain have fallen with the withered leaves of 
autumn, we too may well gather round the festive board, 
and celebrate in company our " Harvest Home." Members 
from town and country, London and the Universities, North 
and South, East and West (for the Club Dinner has the 
useful purpose of reminding us of the existence of one or 
two Districts we might have forgotten), all may meet and talk 
over sport past and to come. Our Captain gives ns the 
history of the year, and has the privilege, which no one 
else should have, of making a long after-dinner speech. 
The musical talent of the Club delights us ; our leading 



Google 



Digitized by 



234 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



members exhibit themselves oratorically on their hind legs 
with more — or less — fluency, as the case may be ; the toast- 
master performs the ** Comedy of Errors," and the wily 
waiter attempts to evade the " sixpenny rule." The only 
fault we have to find is that so few of our members come. 
True — ^we usually sit down 70 or 80 strong, but what is 
that to a Club of 240 or so. We have beaten some records 
this year, though fewer than we should have. Cannot we 
make a record at the Club Dinner, and ensure its success 
and our own pleasure ? 

COMMITTEES. 
At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 
29th September, the following gentlemen were elected 
members of the Club : — 

Name and Address. Proposer. Seconder. 

John Thomas Crier, 16, Bridge 

Ayenue, Hammenmith W. B. Sewell. H. Bamett. 

E. Warner Lnmley, Woodaide, 

Surbiton H. G. Pigoti. M. D. Rucker, Jon. 

It was decided to hold a Smoking Concert on one of the 
first ten days of November. H. G. A. Brown, A. Lloyd, 
S. P. Smith, and F. M. Williams were appointed as a Sub- 
Committee for the purpose, to which the name of R. Q. 
Francis was afterwards added 

It was also decided that the Committee present to the 
C.T.C. Consulate, at Geneva', the copies of the Gazette 
containing Mr. Cobb's tour. 

The Editor was authorized to present, on behalf of 
the Club, a bound volume of the Gazette for 1882, to the 
Library of the N.C.U. 

At a Meeting of the Committee, held on Monday, 
29th October, at the " City Arms Tavern," the resignation 
of H. W. Bridges was accepted with much regret. 
Guy Du Maurier's resignation was also accepted. 

It was decided to hold a Club Paperchase on foot on 
Boxing Day, and to give three prizes for the first three 
hounds. 

The question of prizes came under discussion, but it was 
ultimately decided that they should be given. 

The question of the place of our Annual Race Meeting 
in 1884 was then discussed, it being necessary to come to 
some immediate decision, owing to the various grounds being 
engaged so long beforehand. After a long discussion, it 
was resolved : — 

That the Captain be infltnieted to engage the Stamford 
(' Bridge Groondfl for oar 1884 Annual Race Meeting for some 
" oonvenient Saturday in June." 

E. S. Pbioe, Hon. Sec. 



ANNUAL DINNER. 
Members are reminded of the above, which takes place 
at the St. James's Hall Restaurant on Wednesday, 2lst 
November, at 6.30 p.m. Special attention will be paid to 
the menu this year. Tickets, price 7s. each, can be obtained 
from me. E. S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



NOTICE.-.ANNUAL REPORT. 
Members are requested to send in to me as soon as 
possible list of prizes won this year, list of distances over 
100 miles, and short notes of tours ridden this season, for 
insertion in the above. R S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



SOUTH-EAST BALL. 
By permission of theCaptain, this annual dance will be held 
at the Public Hall, Croydon, on Wednesday, 12th December, 
commencing at 8.30. Tickets (Gentlemen's 10s. 6d., Ladies 
OS.) may be obtained of me, or of any of the following 
members who have already kindly consented to act as 
Stewards on the occasion. It is particularly requested that 
all applications be made on or before Monday, 3rd December, 
after which date the right of raising the price of tickets is 
reserved. 

Stewards. 



J. 
C. 
J. 



A. Barker. 

A. W. Barrett (N.R) 

G. P. Beck. 

H. G. A. Brown. 
R. H. Curtis. 
A. Day. 
P. Gerich. 

R M. Gruggen (S.W.) 
Alfred Herbert. 
Arthur Herbert. 
P. Kinder. 

N.B. — There will be a final meeting of the Stewards at 
the " King's Arms," Katharine Street, Croydon, at 7.30 on 
Wednesday, 5th December, to conclude with a social evening, 
to which members and their friends are cordially invited. 

R. G. Prangis, District Captain. 



Kinder. 

Newman (N.W.) 
C. Oswald. 
R. J. PaulL 
J. P. Potter. 
J. W. Potter. 
L. Potter. 
S. P. Smith. 
W. T. Thorn (W.) 
W. Wyndham. 



SMOKING CONCERT. 
Members will have already received notice of the Smoking 
Concert which is to be held on Wednesday, 7th November, 
at the " London Tavern" (late "King's Head,") Penchurch 
Street. 

Special attention has been given by the Sub-Committee 
to the matter of ventilation, and it is hoped that the 
Queen's Room, witb its ample accommodation, will satisfy 
the most particular. No effort has been spared to render 
the programme varied and attractive. E. T. Sachs has 
kindly consented to give an exhibition of his feats of leger 
de main. 

Doors open at 6.30. Concert to begin at 7 o'clock 
punctually. Members are reminded that admission is by 
tickets only, price Is. Two are enclosed to each member 
with this number of the Gazette. Additional tickets may 
be had on application to 

A. W. Barrett, 42, Pinsbury Sq., E.C., and 
P. M. Williams, West Drayton. 



Google 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



235 



OCTOBER RUNS IN THE SOUTH-EAST. 
October 6th. Though unofficial by name as well as by 
nature, the run to Westerham was attended by no less than 
thirteen men. The absence of the ordinary routine was 
noticeable in the way that men dropped in quite casually in 
ones, twos and threes at the " King's Anna" First Barker 
and Oswald on the tandem rode triumphantly down the hill 
into the town, followed at a respectful distance by Day and 
the D.C. Tea was laid for four, when McRae, Hartridge, 
and W. G. Oswald appeared. Soon after F. B. Smith rode in 
from Sevenoaks, followed by Beck, with F. L. Adam on anew 
purchased tricycle, and accompanied by his terrier. Trap, a 
pattern toall members' dogs, and lastly the brothers Whattou. 
On account of our unexpected increase in numbers, the supply 
of provisions was not quite equal to the demand ; still a fair 
meal was enjoyed. The homeward journey commenced at 
an early hour for South-East runs. Present : F. L. Adam, 
Barker, Beck, Day, Hartridge, McRae, J. C. Oswald, W. C. 
Oswald, F. B. Smith, A. B. W. Whatton, J. S. Whatton, 
P. H. Williams, and R. G. Francis. 



October 13th. A splendid afternoon favoured the run 
to Brighton. Beck and the D.C. left the Fire Station at 
a quarter past four, and were accompanied as far as Crawley 
by S. Herbert, Whealler, and W. C. Oswald. Riding 
through without a dismount, they lighted their lamps at 
Hand Cross and reached the "Glo'ster," Brighton, at a 
quarter past eight, after a glorious moonb'ght run for the 
latter half of the way. Nobody else appearing they pro- 
ceeded to discuss a substantial tea, and after sitting up 
until twelve, Itetired to bed somewhat depressed with the 
idea that two at Brighton was not much of an attendance. 
It was somewhere after that mystic hour when the Captain, 
with McRae and Whealler in attendance, gained admittance. 
It came to light afterwards that they had fallen in with 
Barker, J. C. Oswald, and J. F. Potter at Crawley, aud 
after a protracted carousal at the ''George," which did 
not break up until past ten, had followed in the tracks 
of the two who had gone before. Next day, a southerly 
wind lent its assistance on the homeward stretch, but 
the trio who tarried by the sea-waves — which were not 
sad for once in a way — until late in the day came in 
for more wet than they bargained for. Present : A. Barker, 
Ashley Barrett (Captain), G. F. Beck, S. Herbert, D. McRae, 
J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, Whealler, and R. G. Francis. 



October 20th. Though unable to take part in the run, 
the D.C. was at his post at the Fire Station, at the time 
appointed. The tandem was again to the fore, and its riders 
positively revelled in the mud which was the predominating 
feature of the roads. In spite of this, as well as patches of 
stones which had begun to make their appearance, six men 
followed out the whole run to Bletchingley, and had tea at 





the " White Hart." Present : Barker, Clements, S. Herbert, 
McRae, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, L. Potter, F. H. 
Williams, one visitor, and R. G. Francis. 



October 27th. The last unofficial run fell on a glorious 
day — quite genial for so late in the season. Six men left 
Croydon soon after a quarter past four, and were met by 
Beck, Day, and the D.C. on West Wickham Hill. The 
ascent on to Hayes Common proved uncommonly glutinous, 
and altogether too much for Barker's backbone, which 
suddenly gave way just as the rider was showing the young 
idea how hill riding ought to be done. Having deposited 
the remains of his steed in a cart shed, the unfortunate one 
was not to be done out of his tea, and pursuing his way on 
foot, appeared at the Maxwell Arms " just as the rest of 
the party had commenced operations. After tea came pipes 
and music, and though the piano was not slightly but 
muchly below pitch, Mr. DoyJe, of the Rovers B. C, was 
equal to the occasion, and his songs and accompaniments 
were much appreciated both by the audience and by those 
who gave assistance in the singing line, among whom J. C. 
Oswald, J. F. Potter, Beck, and Day showed their usual 
talents. It was close on nine o'clock before a veiy pleasant 
evening was brought to' an end by a general dispersal in the 
direction of home. Present : Barker, Beck, Day, Clements, 
S. Herbert, McRae, J. C. Oswald, W. C. Oswald, J. F. 
Potter, F. B. Smith, Whealler, F. H. Williams, one visitor, 
and R. G. Fbancis, District Captain. 



UNOFFICIAL RUN IN THE N.W. 

Now that the official runs for this year are over, some of 
the members of the above District actually expressed a 
wish to get up a scratch ride ; so, on Saturday the 13th 
October, Elgood and Jackson were discovered outside the 
*' Park Road Hotel," or, as it is more generally known. 
Tally Ho ! Corner, at four o'clock. 

It having been decided to go to Little Berkhempstead 
a start was made, and scarcely had we arrived at Barnet 
when Lyne and Stunt were overtaken, having prudently 
avoided the high road and chosen the better path along 
lanes. The quintette then rode steadily on until their 
destination was reached, a few minutes after the arrival of 
R B. Hough and Lloyd. In consequence of the absence 
of the " good lady of the house," tea was not commenced ' 
for about an hour. Cyclists are proverbially hungry, but 
on this day the appetites seemed to be very easily appeased, 
though the Dean of Bangor would have held up his hand 
in horror at the manner in which the tea appeared and | 
disappeared. During repast, various men kept alighting at 
the inn like autumn leaves. Eelsey and Long were the j 
first, then the Continental tourist of the W. District, and I 
lastly, but not least, our Hon. Sec, who soon after leaving 
home broke the crank of his bicycle, returned, borrowed 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



a tri., ran over a child, then further on broke the spring, 
had it repaired at Barnet, and arrived triumphant. A 
pleasant evening liaving been spent lamps were lighted, 
and in spite of a diversion being attempted by our Sub- 
Editor a mount was accomplished, and for anything I know 
to the contrary all got home sober and serene. Present : 
Elgood, R. B. Hough, Jackson, Kelsey, Langmore, Lloyd, 
Long, Price, Stuart, and 

A. H. LowN, District Captain. 



THE BOXING DAY PAPERCHASE. 
The 'above will be run throughout on foot, and it is 
hoped all members will assist in making it a success ; also 
that they will not allow themselves to be prevented from 
attending by. possible bad weather, since it will be carried 
out in spite of any difficulties of that nature. This being 
a case in which " the more the merrier" applies, I hope, in 
addition to coming out in force, they will also bring with 
them our friends and future members — ^their brothers — and 
also any other friend who may be interested in the 
sport. A Sub-Committee to arrange all details has 
been appointed, and a full notice will be published 
in next Gazette. At present I may say that it is 
under consideration to start the hares from Croydon at 
noon, and, after running a circular course for about four 
hours, to return to the starting point, where, at the *' King's 
Arm»," Katharine Street, hunters and hunted will dine 
amicably at 5 p.m., with presentation of prizes to the first 
three hounds, and a little music to follow before returning 
to town. This is a new departure, and I trust all L.B.C. 
men will do their best to aid in making it a success. On 
behalf of the Sub-Committee I will say that no pains shall 
be spared to provide good sport and a pleasant evening for 
our members and guests. 

Ashley W. Babrett, Captain. 



LEAVES FROM THE DIARY OP A D.C. 

The trials of the office of District Captain have been so 
often alluded to in the columns of the Gazette, that now 
my active service is over, and I have leisure to chew the cud 
of reflection, I am tempted to give the Club the benefit of 
my experiences in the hope of removing some of the 
erroneous, or, rather, exaggerated ideas that exist on the 
subject. I am fully aware of the roseate tints that ever 
hang over the stem realities of the past, and that like a 
mountaineer who has climbed some precipitous ascent, I 
may be inclined to look lightly on the toil now the task is 
accomplished. Still after making allowance for this tendency, 
I hope to show that a District Captain is not that poor 
unenviable creature many suppose him to be, condemned to 
a work both wearisome and unprofitable. 

The most prominent of the unpleasant features perhaps 
in the office are its disappointments. To take an instance 
which is only too common — the weather disappointment. It 



may be that the morning of some favourite meet dawns fine 
and bright, " the dear little dickey-birds carol away " under 
the D.C.'s bedroom window. He, too, feels blithe and gay, 
for has he not done his utmost to secure a good Meet? 
After breakfast the sky has clouded over ; at luncheon time 
it drizzles; at three o'clock — that critical moment in 
Saturday runs — it rains a deluge ! The spirits of our 
unfortunate friend fall, and reside at zero. He, probably, 
will spend the afternoon plougliing through the mud alone, 
or with one or two companions as moist and as miserable- 
looking as himself. He will, we can imagine, try and look 
cheerful as he sits down to tea, with a Niagara in miniature 
flowing down his back — a feeling as of a cold poultice about 
his nether limbs. But as he works his way homeward, the 
further he gets the more the feeling comes home to him 
that it was not really so very bad after all, while next 
morning he finds himself saddled with the conviction that 
he had had an enjoyable afternoon, and that the other men 
were simpletons for staying at home. Be this as it may, 
he had done his duty. 

There is another disappointment, which, though not so 
conspicuous to a casual observer, yet has a nescio quid 
atnari, and a marvellous subtlety in the sting it inflicts. 
In this case the weather leaves nothing to desire ; the roads 
follow suit — and still they come not ! Granted that a wet 
afternoon is excuse sufficient, how now ? Of course pre- 
texts will be fortlicoming in shoals, probably of the fashion 
so ably described by "Goethe" in the last number of the 
Gazette. But surely there must be some men in a District, 
even if it be numerically small, who would hail the oppor- 
tunity of a ride under these circumstances, however much 
they may dread liquefaction in wet weather. 

In the majority of cases of total failure I do not hesitate 
to say that the fault is that of none other than the District 
Captain himself. Of course he does not see it in that light. 
If men were certain that be the weather fine, wet, or doubt- 
ful their chief would be at the starting place at the time 
appointed ; that there was always one man at least who 
followed the run in its entirety, however uninviting the 
prospect, is it to be imagined that he would perform his 
penance alone ? A District Captain has only to create this 
confidence, and he will soon cease to complain that " men 
will not turn up at the meets." Of coui-se if he who is 
endued with authority fights shy of the rain, or falls a prey 
to the influences of those " other attractions," ought he to 
be surprised to find his flock dwindling from similar causes ? 
Example is better than bushels of postcards, and a regular 
attendance is worth more than all the " whips in the 
Gazette that were ever printed. 

As to those other attractions, a D.C. is but mortal ; but 
though in his weaker moments the whisper of the siren 
voices may fall with a soft sweet cadence on his ear, what- 
ever in his heart of hearts may be his opinion on rival 
pleasures and pursuits to his District and Club, he will 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 237 



appear the stern disciplinarian who views such things with 
a fierce contempt. There will always be a certain amount 
of grievance caused by those incorrigibles, denizens of every 
District, who will not be entrapped into attending a single 
meet by any device or snare, however artfully laid ; who 
persist in looking on their old Club-run dajrs as " dreams 
of the past," which they are not apparently anxious to 
dream again, still this is a state of things which should not 
be altogether unexpected, and cannot be classed under the 
heading of disappointments. The two cases given above 
may be taken as fair samples, sufficient to show the seamy 
side of a D.C.'s existence. 

In agreeable contrast, there are the numerous pleasant 
surprises which blossom spontaneously along his path. When 
a fine afternoon treads hard on the heels of a wet morning ; 
when, in spite of contrary winds and weather, a fair sprink- 
ling of the district show that they are not all of the butter- 
fly order ; or the appearance of some familiar face long 
missed from the tea table. These are few out of many in- 
stances, any one of which would be sufficient to gladden 
the heart of a District Captain. As the season goes on 
he will find himself surrounded by an inner circle of 
followers, a kind of corps d'elite, who will assist the 
runs, not by their presence only, but by their in- 
fluence on others. Not the best pleasing will be 
the quasi patriarchal feeling with which he will come 
to regard the younger members of his District. There 
will probably be more or less of the wobbler about 
them when they first join, but soon they begin to feel their 
legs, and ere long are winning laurels for themselves and 
District. No need for reminding postcards in the case of 
these. The D.C. knows they will come to the meets because 
they like them. It may be said it is because they know no 
other amusement. If this be so, then their ignorance is 
his heart's delight, and their inexperience one of the main- 
stays of the Club. 

However hard his work, and whatever the visible result, 
a man who has once been District Captain can never look 
on it as time and energy misspent. Ho will have acquired 
a stake in the Club, which will last long after mere cyclical 
mania. He may leave his home or even his country, but 
his interest in the old District — ^liis District that was — will 
remain " a thing of gladness and a joy for ever." 

DOBO. 



CAMBRIDGE NOTES. 
This is by no means as dull a season here in bicycling 
circles as is the case elsewhere. We came up for the most 
part during the second week of October, and observed that 
the first fixture of importance was the Club Run to 
Haverhill, returning to the favourite " Swan " at Linton 
to tea. There were present eleven members, a full moon, 
and a howling wind, and we discovered that an unusually 
large number of men had been touring in the " Long." 



The Club "Double," which attended, has been most 
popular, and has already (in six months) paid ofi' two-thirds 
of its original cost. It has also, in the hands of energetic 
members, been instrumental in introducing to cycling 
certain learned professors, deans and other dignitaries. 

It was decided after a close division in Committee to con- 
tinue for this year, at all events, the Fifty Miles Road Race, 
and it was got ofi" on Friday 26th, resulting as follows : — 
J. S. Whatton, Trinity (holder), 1 ; A. W. Rumney, Trin. 
Hall, 2 ; C. W. Pagan, Trin. Hall, 3. There was not much 
wind, but the roads could hardly have been worse, and 
these were the only starters. The representative coun- 
cillor and the Irish tourist shared the lead for 35 miles, 
when Whatton drew away up a hill, and finally won by 
4f miu. Rumney rode strongly, but lacks judgment, 
and is somewhat careless of stones and other obstacles 
by which he was several times nearly prostrated. The 
winner was thrown in the first half-mile by a dog which 
emerged &om under a cart, but by a flying dismount 
over the handles he managed to land on his feet, 
a bent bar and two broken hind-wheel spokes being the 
only injuries. He rode a 58-inch " Rucker;" Rumney also 
rode a " Rucker," and Fagan a " Surrey Machinist." 

The path races are fixed for November 5th, and among 
them is the first tricycle race ever promoted by the 
University Club. It is to be worked as is a time race in 
rowing by means of " stations," and the Club is canvassing 
among the C.U.R.V. to supplement its one pistol, which 
itself is not as deadly a weapon as could be desired. Four 
will be wanted. The Freshmen's event should be a very 
warm thing ; the chief aspirants are a Magdalen man on a 
62-inch " Humber," a member from Trinity Hall with a 
60-inch " Rudge " racer, and a brother of that L. C. Carr, 
whose finish with F. E. S. Perry at the last L.B.C. meeting 
will be remembered. The Two Miles Scratch will go to the 
elder CaiT or to A. B. W. Whatton, the former for choice. 
Neither E. H. Brown nor J. S. Whatton are in training. 

We are already appreciating our good fortune in having 
secured the services of Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher as our new 
President, and are confidently looking forward to a most 
successful season. Posqabon. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sir, — If reference is made to the Report of the Committee 
holding office in 1878, it will be found that the attendance 
of the S.E. at the Hampton Court Meet in that year was 
34. When writing the Echo to which " Porcupine " calls 
attention in the last issue, I thought that the Committee's 
Official Report was more likely to be correct than that 
published in the Gazette, and that preference should be 
given to the former as the higher authority. — Yours etc.. 

Rambler. 



Digitized by 



Google j 



238 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



7o the Editor of the London Bicycle Chib Gazette. 

Sir, — If we refer to the Report of the Committee for 
the year 1878, we find that in that year the Club severed 
its connection with the Bicycling Press and established 
the Gazette. We also find that at the close of the 
year the numerical strength of the Club was 240 active 
members. Now since the date that census was taken 
the Club has scarcely altered its numbers, and we are 
now as strong as then ; but in all the previous reports 
of the Committee we find, if we look at them in the 
Older they appeared, that the Club had been gaining 
numbers largely. Suddenly the growth of the Club 
appears to have ceased, and, curiously enough, the cessa- 
tion is coeval with the birth of our cherished Gazette 
and our severance with the press. Now it is surely a 
vital question, and one that should be calmly considered, 
whether we do right in having no relations with the 
Press, and whether the fact that the Club's name has 
not been kept before the public is the reason that we do 
not increase. That the L.B.O. is well known amongst 
clubs and clubmen no one will deny ; but is it well known 
amongst the rising generation of bicyclists?— the men 
that, as yet, belong to no club, but are on the look out 
for a good one to join. Surely our self-imposed isolation 
is the reason why so many ^ther clubs, whose names are 
constantly before the outside public in the Press, increase 
and multiply iu the way they appear to do. When a 
man first takes to bicycling it is natural tliat he should 
take in the journals dedicated to our sport, and from 
them gather something of the various clubs. If I may 
instance myself, I may say that when I first learned 
to ride I had a great wish to join a dub, and the first 
time I ever saw the words London Bicycle Club was 
in a periodical which gave a list of the various clubs 
and their officers then extant. Something iu the pro- 
spectus of the L.B.C. attracted me, and I did my best 
to make the acquaintance of a member and get put 
up for election. Surely my case is not an isolated one, 
and are we not doing ourselves great injury by our policy 
of abstention ? I do not wish to suggest that we should 
go to the other extreme and constantly land ourselves in 
print like Pears' Soap, but we might invite representatives 
of the principal paper or papers to our Dinner and our 
Smoking Concerts. The Dramatic Society has always in- 
vited members of the Press to its performances, and has 
never been forbidden to do so by the Committee, although 
the reports of the various papers have been reprinted in 
these columns, and the Committee cannot therefore plead 
ignorance of the doings of its planet. Why should the 
planet be allowed to do what the fixed (emphatically fixed) 
star is forbidden ? Is it too late to redeem the error of our 
ways, and to put aside the false pride which is pre3dng on 
our vitals ? — ^Yours, etc.. 

Imprimatur. 



A EIDE ACROSS FRANCE INTO SWITZERLAND. 
(1.) How to avoid Paris. 

Notwithstanding the disparaging remarks with reference 
to Foreign Tours which have occasionally appeared in the 
pages of this Gazette, I don't feel called upon to say much 
by way of apology for sending you a short account of our 
Franco-Swiss Tour of 1883. It is, of course, most desirable 
that men should know something of the beauties of their 
own country before going to view the sights of foreign lands. 
But this is not a charge which can be justly brought against 
cyclists generally ; our own Club contains many members 
who have visited almost every corner of the British Islands. 
One of your contributors sneers at the man who can be 
interested in studying "the dirty habits of foreigners." 
Well, if some of their habits may be objectionable, we might 
take a lesson from them in others, and the man who can 
repeat in these days the Johnsonian dictum ''As to manners, 
sir, they have none, and their customs are beastly," only 
shows himself to be very ignorant or very prejudiced, or both. 

Starting from Victoria at 8.40 a.m. on September 13th 
to catch a boat advertised to leave Newhaven at 10.30, we 
felt pretty confident of reaching Rouen before evening. But 
the funereal pace at which we left Newhaven at once showed 
us we had reckoned without the tides, and we learnt on 
enquiry that, as the tide was then falling, we could not 
possibly get into Dieppe harbour before 5.30 p.m. And so 
it proved ; we arrived off Dieppe about half-past four, but 
had to lay to for an hour before we got the signal to enter 
the harbour. By the time we had got our machines, etc., 
through the custom house it was past six, and it being 
obviously impossible to ride 36 miles in an hour of daylight, 
there was nothing for it but to make ourselves comfortable 
where we were. So after booking our portmanteau, con- 
taining greatcoats and walking boots, to Geneva by " grande 
Vitesse,'' we put up at the " Chariot d' Or " (B.T.C. house) 
in the Rue de la Barre, and found it satisfactory. 

Leaving Dieppe next morning at 8.30, after a light break- 
fast, we hoped to reach Rouen about twelve, but again we 
were disappointed, for on dismounting at the top of the steep 
hill leading into Maromme (6 miles from Rouen) Williams 
discovered that he had lost the screw which fixed his handle 
bar. After walking back along the road for nearly a mile 
the screw was found, but all attempts to fix it proved fruit- 
less. The machine had just returned from a " thorough 
overhaul " at the hands of the makers, and this ill-fitting 
screw was only the first of a series of breaks-down which 
bothered the owner and his companions throughout the 
tour. 

On reaching Roueu we first sought out a serrurier, in- 
tending to leave the machine to be repaired whilst we had 
lunch ; then Williams thought he would like to see the job 
finished, and it proved rather a longer one than might have 
been expected, so that it was past two before we got our . 
food, and the doctor, who could have eaten the serrurier 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



half an hour before, had got beyond the hungry stage and 
could eat uothing. After lunch we had a look at the 
Cathedral and St. Ouen — ^two out of the three had done 
Rouen pretty thoroughly the year before — and then made 
a start onward. We got on capitally for twenty miles, 
when the doctor began to discover that a brandy and soda 
and piece of dry bread was not much to bicycle on, and 
after struggling on for another couple of miles up and down 
hill, he came to a dead stop. We were still two miles from 
Gaillon and it was beginning to get dark, but on explaining the 
case to some country people who happened to pass, one of 
them very kindly got some bread from a neighbouring 
cottage, and the invalid quickly recovering himself we were 
not long in reaching Gaillon, where we put up at the 
" Hotel d'Evreux " and were soon enjoying a good supper. 
Distance from Dieppe, 62 miles. 

A few miles from Gaillon, on the road to Les Andelys, is 
the ruined Chateau Gaillard, worth visiting for the sake of 
the splendid view of the valley of the Seine to be had from 
its walls ; but unfortunately we had not time to make the 
excursion. Leaving Gaillon soon after eight, we made good 
progress till we were within three or four miles of Mantes. 
Here Williams' front wheel suddenly locked, and after 
condescending to be wheeled backwards for a short distance 
obstinately refused to move at all. As we were discussing 
the possibility of taking the wheel out there and then, an 
old woman came by in a country cart, and on being 
appealed to she readily consented to give the disabled 
machine and its owner a lift into Mantes, Silk and the 
Doctor riding on ahead to see about lunch. Just as this 
was ready Williams appeared, having had a terrible jolting 
on his springless conveyance; after lunch we borrowed 
some tools and took the machine to pieces, but could not 
discover the cause of its eccentric behaviour. 

This road to Paris has already been described in our 
Gazette, so I need say nothing about the 22 miles between 
Mantes and St. Germain. At the latter place we turned off 
to the right for Versailles (8 miles) where we arrived just 
at dusk, and put up at the " Hotel du Coin d*Or," in the 
Avenue de Sceaux CB.T.C), which I can only describe as 
fair. I can't, however, suggest a better, for I should fancy 
that the large hotels, of which there are several in Versailles, 
would be found very expensive. Distance from Gaillon, 
53 miles. 

I hope that what follows will not be misunderstood, or I 
shall incur the wrath of a good many of my friends. I 
don't wish to assert that Paris is not a very nice place, or 
that it is a place to be avoided as a general rule ; but it is 
not a paradise for the bicyclist. The outskirts and many 
of the main streets are paved, and on the one stretch of 
good road where itwould be pleasant — viz., from the Barri^re 
de TEtoile by the Champs Elysdes to the Place du Carrousel 
— riding is not allowed. Getting across Pari? with a bicycle 
is therefore a very tedious business, and involves walking a 



good many miles. Last year the majority of our party 
trained from St. Germain into Paris and out again to 
Mdlun, in which case there is only three and a half miles 
to walk — from the Northern terminus to that of the P.L.M.^ 
Company. Or you may ride on through St. Germain to 
St. Cloud, whence steamboats run every half hour through 
Paris to Bercy, which is close to Charenton, where you join 
the main road to Geneva, etc. ; but as this road is paved for 
ten miles out of Paris, there is still some walking to be done. 

Probably the best plan for the rider who only wants to 
get across Paris is to follow the route taken by the doctor 
last year and by the whole party this year, viz., from St. 
Germain to Versailles, and thence by a good road to 
Choisy-le-Roi, where you cross the Seine and join the 
Geneva road about six miles from Paris. To get to Versailles 
from St. Germain you turn to the right by the artillery 
barracks, down hill ; then there is a steep hill, paved, to 
climb through Marly, keeping to the left, still uphill, on 
reaching a reservoir. From the top of the hill it is an easy 
ride to Versailles, with one dismount for a short piece of 
pwo^. Working your way round to the front of the palace 
at Versailles, the second turning on the right down the 
broad central avenue is the Rue des Chantiers, paved. But 
on getting clear of the j^avS there is nothing to dismount 
for, except perhaps a level railway crossing near Sceaux, 
until you reach pa'o4 again at Choisy-le-Roi. It is 8 miles 
from St. Germain to Versailles, 13 from this place to 
Choisy, and another mile to the junction of the road from 
Paris. 

(7b he corUintied). 



ALL ROUND THE WHEEL. 

ExTKAOBDiKARY BicxcLiNa Pbrfoemancb.— Mr. W. F. 
Sutton, of the London Scottish Bicycle Club, left Wood 
Green, London, at 12.2 a.m. on Saturday, and rode to 
Worksop, in Nottinghamshire (139:1 miles), returning to 
Kneesal (151|) and then going by Tuxford (157|) to Ret- 
ford (165), where he turned and rode througli Newark, 
Grantham, and Stamford to Tempsford, in Bedfordshire, 
completing at 11.58 p.m. a distance of 258f miles. The 
ride has been properly vouched for and the mileage checked 
by two diflferent road books. The roads were heavy, a con- 
siderable fog prevailed during the night, and the wind was 
unfavourable on the return journey from Retford. Mr. 
Sutton held the record last year for the 24 hours (222 
miles), but this distance having been since beaten by three 
gentlemen he determined to try again, and after two failures, 
owing to the state of the weather, he has again succeeded 
in beating all previous records. The double tricycle record 
(180 miles) is held by Mr. Sutton in conjunction with Mr. 
James Lennox, of Dumfries. 

«««««• 

One of the most important features of the recent Council 
Meeting of the Union, was the adoption by the Council of 



Google 



Digitized by 



240 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



the scheme for regulating professional racing. The present 

chaotic state of professionalism was proved by the fact that, 

while a professional body, claiming to be representative, had 

approved the scheme previous to its submission to the 

Council, immediately on its passing, a meeting at Leicester, 

including many of the leading professionals, strongly 

condemned it. This latter meeting was, however, worked by 

the ground proprietors, who seem to think the large sums 

they derive from professional racing are threatened. 
• ••••• 

The most important business of the evening, however, 

was the unanimous adoption of a rule authorising the 

executive to suspend any rider competing at sports not 

held under the rules of the N.C.U., or under rules sanctioned 

by them. This assimilates cycling law to that of the A. A. A. , 

and will prove a very valuable aid to suppressing the evil 

connected with gate money and hole-and-corner meetings. 

Our Committee must either hold our Race Meeting under 

N.C.U. rules, or get our present rules, which are almost 

identical with the N.C.U. code, sanctioned by the Union. 

For the sake of example the former course seems preferable ; 

and our racing men must be careful what race meetings 

they ride at, especially in the country. 

The Front Wheel Hub. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny deliver it that the porpentine casteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Dioscorides aflSrmeth it a 
point of folly to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowne. 

The connection between the L.B.C. and the Otter S.C. 
increases each year, and when the Otters recently disported 
themselves at their annual entertainment, quite a large 
contingent of L.B.O. men were present. 

• ••••• 

A prominent one, Rucker, officiated ably as judge, and 

accomplished a best on recor' for ^* - for he was only 

twenty minutes late. 

«•«*•• 

On the 9th Oct., at St. Mary's, Chelmsford, by the Rev. H. F. Johnson, 
ARTHUR JOHN BACON, Amsterdam, late of Antwerp, eldest son 
of the late Josiah Lafayette Bacon, London and Hamburgh, to EMILY 
J. HOCKLEY, youngest daughter of Charles Hockley, Chelmsford, 
Essex. 

« • ♦ ^ • • • 

As a silent member I venture to hope that nobody, ex- 
cept the Captain, will make a long speech at the Dinner. 
The Captain is bound to, for he responds to the Toast of 
the evening, and has all the glories of the L.B.C. to recount. 

♦ ♦♦*•♦ 
Should any of our members be desirous of playing foot- 
ball during the winter season and be uncertain as to what club 
they should join, I can strongly recommend the Wasps, who 
play two teams every Saturday, and I need scarcely add 
that the club is well managed when I state that Oliver 
Thorn is Secretary. The ground, a first rate one, is at 
Putney. 



Rucker's ne^ Tandem Bicycle has lately given proof of 
vast capabilities under its able exponents. Barker and 

J. C. Oswald. 

• «•♦•• 

It is said that the racing talent of the S.E. cannot hold 
a candle to it on the level, that up-hill it leaves the stur- 
diest hill climber labouring hopelessly in the rear ; while 

the descent of hills like Westerham are mere child's play. 
««•*•• 

One hears, occasionally, quaint receipts for training diet. 
A high dignitarr in the Club, I won't mention names, in- 
formed me that he never knew what real moving was like 
until the other day after a supper of pork sausages and rum 
shrub. 

• ••••• 

There is supposed to be a vast deal of energy still en 

reserve in the S.E. District, and as this is to be thrown into 

the South-east Ball, another record is likely to be disturbed. 
« • • • • • 

The poor Captain complains that he is spending most of 

his time in convincing members that they will have to pay 

for the two Smoking Concert tickets sent out with this 

number. The origin of their mistake is not very evident ; 

but the misguided ones entrench themselves behind the 

wording of the last circular from the Sub-Committee, from 

which they may draw any inference they please, but they 

will have to pay — ^and that's all about it ! 

• • ♦ • • ♦ 

Now is the time for the member s brother to disport him- 
self, and at the Boxing day Paperchase he may safely turn 
up in force, since "Wyvern," his implacable foe, is wintering 
in the south of France, beyond reach of Gazette. Those 
who know our Cluh Junius tell me he has aged considerably, 
has grown a long white beard, and is trying to restore his 
shattered nervous system, by avoidance of all sources of 

irritation and excitement. 

«••*«• 

The B.D. Paperchase has brought on a fever attack of 

training as- severe almost as that preceding the Road Trial. 

Our Coniqii'llif.ee, anxious to get to windward of their fellow 

memberl^^ arc;.said, as soon as the measure was passed, to 

have put out tlvur pipes, torn up their return tickets, and 

started full pelt t)n foot for their suburban homes. This is 

all very trying t * one who hoped to be allowed to lie fallow 

all the winter, av did your omniscient Porcupine. 

rilANGE OF ADDRESS. 
A. Henr}'', Mcidowside, 21, Avenue Villas, Cricklewood. 

"exchange list. ' 

For Sale. — 5G-incli (closely builtj " William Keen," in 
good condition, what offers. J. F. Potter, Beddiugton. 

NO'riCK TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributions must be addressed to " The Editor, Ii.B.C. Gazette, 
35, Eastcheap, E.C., ' and must benr the name of the autlior, though not 
necessarily for insertion. 'I'hcy n»nst be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later tlian Tuesday evening. 

friuted for the I'rtiprietors by Darling & Son, at the Minerva Steaui 
Printing Office, 85, Eastcheap, London, JB.C— -November 1, 1883. 



Digitized by 




mAm 





An Official Record of the Runs, Races, and other Doings of the L.B.C. 



Vol. VI. No. 33.] 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL. 
[All rights reserved.] 



November 29, 1883. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Winter Riding 241 

Notioee 242 

The Annnal Dinner 242 

The Tandem Bicycle (with Ulnstration) 248 

Smoking Concert 248 

Correspondence 249 



FAGB 

Quills 250 

Special General Meeting 250 

A Ride Across France into Switzerland 251 

The Boxing Day Pi^wrchase 252 

Practice for the Paperchaae 252 

Notice to Correspondents 252 



The next Gazette will be published on Thursday, January 
3rd, 1884. Contributions intended for it must be 
received b^ore 6 p.m. on Tuesday, January 1st. 

WINTER RIDING. 
From the luxuriant crop of festivities which spring up, 
mushroom like, at this season of the year, it might not un- 
reasonably be imagined that such a thing as bicycle riding 
was quite out of the question. The six months of plenty 
in the way of Club runs have given way to six months of 
dearth, when wheel ways are almost entirely deserted. All 
but supposed enthusiasts are content to retire with their 
machines, so to speak, into winter quarters. The machines 
themselves are allowed to rust in the peaceful seclusion of 
some outhouse, or are wrapped up in cotton wool and oil 
until the next spring, according to the disposition of their 
owners. The racing man goes out of training and lives on 
the memories of past victories, or betakes him to his home- 
training in the hope of future successes looming in the dim 
distance. Some of our men take their exercise in violent 
doses of football, or else more prudently (? Ed.) seek initia- 
tion into the mysteries of Lacrosse. Pew there are who, in 
the face of less congenial conditions continue the sport which 
has occupied their shrine of devotion during the summer. 
There are, it must be owned, some whose energy is of so 
spasmodic a character, that to them a month or two of rest 
is almost an absolute necessity. Apollo's bow was not always 
strung, and next year they will come out again as giants 
refreshed ; but to the majority bicycling is something more 



than a spasm, and for them winter riding ought not to 
be an impossibility, though their scope for action will be 
necessarily limited. 

Let it not be imagined that we would advocate the con- 
tinuance of Saturday runs throughout the year. It is not 
the frugal fare of the Club tea, followed by the glorious un- 
certainty of a ride home in the dark through mud, stones, 
and ruts that will tempt men out in the winter mouths. It 
is rather in the day-lit certainty of the early afternoon or 
of an occasional holiday that the opportunity for riding 
may be sought and often not sought unprofitably. 

It is quite true that there is hardly any pastime on which 
the weather has a more direct influence than that of 
bicycling. None can welcome the change from dry and 
even surface, where the wheels seemed to slip along by 
themselves, to the era of sloughs and stones where at times 
it requires the greatest exertion to move at all ; still, these 
are obstacles which may be often overcome or circumvented. 
Even in the worst specimen of an English winter, occasions 
will arise when the roads are something better than passable. 
It is then that the venerable " Stassen," or Irish roadster 
so long deserted, may be again called into requisition ; and 
we think the game will be found to be worth the candle. 

We are hearing plenty just now about Balls, Concerts, 
et hoc genus omne, and we hope some of our readers may 
be induced to follow our advice during this dead season 
and not give up riding altogether. We need hardly say 
that we shall be glad to receive the result of their 
experiences for the Gazbtte. 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



COMMITTEE. 
At a meeting of the Committee held on Monday, 
12th November, at the " City Arms," the following gentle- 
man was elected a member of the Club : — 



Proposer. 



8econd«r. 



Name and Address. 
Hermann Rudolf Scbmettau, 
Hanover ' Cottage, Croxted 

Road, West Dulwich G. F. Beck. 0. J. Turner. 

H. W. Bridges, whose resignation was accepted at the 
last meeting, was allowed to withdraw the same^ and is 
again on the Club books. 

The resignation of G. W. Pearse was accepted. 

The Editor was authorized to insert four extra pages in 
the present Gazette, if he found it necessary. 

E. S. Pbige, Hon. Sec. 



NOTICE.— ANNUAL REPORT. 
Members are requested to send in to me as soon as 
possible list of prizes won this year, list of distances over 
100 miles, and short notes of tours ridden this season, for 
insertion in the above. R S. Price, Hon. Sec. 



NOTICE.— SMOKING CONCERT. 
Members who tised the tickets sent them with the last 
issue are requested to settle at once with A. Lloyd, The 
Winns, Walthamstow. Unused ones may be destroyed. 



SOUTH-EAST BALL. 
As already announced, this Annual Dance will take place 
on Wednesday, I2th December, at the Public Hall, Croydon, 
commencing at 8.30 p.m. Tickets (Gentlemen's, 10s. 6d., 
Ladies, 5s.) may be obtained of me, or of any of the 
Stewards, a complete list of whom is given below. In order 
to make the necessary preparations it is requested that 
all applications may be made, if possible, by Wednesday, 
5th December. 

Stewards. 



A. Barker. 

A. W. Barrett (N.E.) 

G. F. Beck. 
T. D. Belfield. 

H. G. A. Brown. 
R H. Curtis. 

A. Day. 
F. Gerich. 

R. M. Gruggen (S.W.) 
Alfred Herbert. 
Arthur Herbert. 



P. Kinder. 

J. Kinder. 

C. Newman (N.W.) 

J. C. Oswald. 

R. J. Paull. 

J. F. Potter. 

J. W. Potter. 

L. Potter. 

S. P. Smith. 

W. T. Thorn (W.) 

W. Wyndham. 



Members of other Districts who may wish to put up in 
Croydonforthenightare recommended to try the" Greyhound 
Hotel," which is close to the Hall, and where it is probable 
there will be quite a gathering of L.B.C. men. I shall be 



happy to make arrangements if members will kindly com- 
municate with me. 

There are trains from London Bridge to West Croydon 
at 4.35, 5.10, 5.43, 6.10, 6.45, 7.25 and 7.45 ; from Victoria 
to )Vest Croydon at 4.48, 5.35, 6.15 and 7.20, as well as 
others from the same stations to New Croydon. 

N.B. — There will be a final meeting of the Stewards at 
7.30 on Wednesday, 5th December, at the " King's Arms," 
Katharine Street. It is hoped that all the Stewards who 
can, as well as all members interested will attend. The 
proceedings will conclude with a sociable evening, and 
anyone willing to assist in the musical line is requested 
to bring his songs. 

R. G. Francis, District Captain. 



THE DRAMATIC SOCIETY. 

A performance will be given by the above Society on 
January the 22nd, at St. George's Hall, Langham Place, 
commencing at 7.30 p.m., when the Comedy, "Weak 
Woman," by H. J. Byron, will be acted, preceded by 'the 
Farce, " To Paris and Back for £5." 

Stage Boxes, £2 2s. ; First Tier Boxes, £l Is. ; Stalls, 5s. 
(five for £l Is.}; Balcony, 2s. 6d. Fi'ee li$t entirely 
suspended. 

Members are reminded that on subscribing 5s. to the 
Society, a stall may be obtained free on application. 

The Society respectfully request that evening dress be 
worn. 

H. S. NayIiOR, Hon. Sec. 



THE ANNUAL DINNER. 

This, the chief festivity of the winter season, was held at 
St. James's Hall, on Wednesday, the 21st of November, 
when nearly eighty members and visitors seated themselves 
(as per diagram below) at the festive board. The proceedings 
were remarkable for great enthusiasm and a fine display 
of Club "solidarity.*' The music was also of a high 
character, Naylor's flute solo, and Dutton's and Schmettau's 
songs being much appreciated After dinner the President 
gave the toast of " The Queen," which called forth a very 
loyal and noisy rendering of the National Anthem. 

The Rev. W. d'A. Crofton said : — Mr. Chairman and 
^ Gentlemen. In rising to propose the next toast upon the 
Ibt, that of " Success to the London Bicycle Club," I know 
that I am bringing forward a subject which will be most 
heartily received, not only by yourselves, but also — and 
more especially— by my fellow guests. When I think of all 
that I ought to say on this subject, I feel like a man 
suddenly called upon to make the vain attempt to ladle out 
Niagara with a sieve. (A laugh). The L.B.C. is the mighty 
Niagara, and I the unworthy wielder of the sieve. No 
sooner do I dip my mind — so to speak— into the greatness 
of the L.B.C., and rise to bring before you some few speci- 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



243 



mens of the same, than I find I offer jon only a few drops 
from a perfect river of merit — a result caused, not by lack 
of greatness on the part of the L.B.C., but by the inability 
of myself to do full justice to the subject that I have in 
hand. If, therefore, in speaking of the various poiiy» of 
excellence of the L.B.C., I omit the names of many 
who contribute to its greatness, pray blame the sieve- 
like nature of my memory which has allowed their 
names to fall through and be lost. In the L.B.C. 
there are men who at the council table of the National 
Cyclists' Union — ^men such as Scrutton, Stephen Smith, 
Reynolds, and the younger Whattou (cheers) — carry others 
irresistibly along with them by the powerful and straight- 
forward nature of their course. There areothers who, arrayed 
in the familiar black war paint of their tribe upon the 
war path — men such as Wadham Wyndham, Oliver 
Thorn, Beck, Butler, Reynolds — whether at Stamford 
Bridge or at the Crystal Palace (laughter), out distance 
others in the race, (Cheers). There are others who, 
turning aside from the rushing excitement of the racing 
path, prefer the quiet eddies of the road — men such 
as Alison, Charles Newman, and Weeks. (Cheers). And 
besides all these, there is the general body of the members — 
such men as Francis, Brown, Price, Hough, and Lloyd — who 
form that continuous stream of merit of which there seems 
to be an inexhaustible supply. And finally. Gentlemen, 
there is your Captain, Mr. Ashley Barrett, whom, in con- 
tinuance of my metaphor, I can best compare to that 
lighthouse upon Goat Island in the centre of the Horse- 
shoe Fall — beaming down with approval upon those who, 
by the continuous work of many years, have made so proud 
a position for the Captain of their Club to occupy (cheers), 
a position however, which, as he no doubt could tell you, 
though seemingly so firm and peaceful, is surrounded and 
undermined by a continuous flow of cares. I have much 
pleasure, gentlemen, in proposing — " Success to the London 
Bicycle Club," coupled with the name of your Captain, 
Mr. Ashley Barrett. (Prolonged cheers). 

AsHLET W. Barbett was received with prolonged 
cheering as he rose to respond. Briefly apologiriug 
for a cold, which he said had not yielded to the com- 
bined forces of tallow candles, spirits of camphor, and 
mustard ball, he continued as follows : — I confess I have 
watched with a good deal of anxiety the way in which you 
would receive the toast which Mr. Crofton has so pleasantly 
proposed, and your kind reception of it takes a considerable 
weight off my mind, for it convinces me that you have 
forgotten and forgiven a certain little misadventure in con- 
nection with the luggage of the unfortunate Bath candidates 
on Whit-Monday last. (Laughter). I thank you then, 
Gentlemen, very heartily for your kindness this evening, and 
still more do I thank you for that loyal support you have 
rendered to your Captain during his year of office. His work^ 
though very honourable, is also one of some anxiety, and 



though outwardly he may smile and do his best to smooth 
his troubled brow, his position is, if I may be allowed the 
simile, not unlike that of the man who pitches his tent on 
the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, and knows not at what hour 
of the night the flood of lava may roll down and overwhelm 
him. However, the lava has not come ; and that the Club 
thrives as it does I attribute very much to the support of 
those whom I am proud to term my friends — to Godlee, 
Scrutton, Stephen Smith, and Fred Williams — and whom 
I am now glad to thank for help rendered at all times and 
on all subjects, in a manner as unostentatious as it was 
pleasant. (Cheers). Though last, not least, I must also 
thank my brother officer, B. S. Price for that cheery, good 
natured smile, and the business aptitude he has brought to 
bear upon the work. (Cheers). I fear at times it has been 
pretty heavy, and that I have shifted it, perhaps all too often, 
from my own shoulders on to his. Gentlemen, the time- 
honoured custom for your Captain to give at the Club 
Dinner a sketch of the events of the past year must be 
followed, and I confess I undertake it with misgivings. 
Where so mucji has to be said one cannot but feel that 
there is a chance of leaving out what is important and 
dwelling too much upon comparatively insignificant details ; 
therefore I must beg your indulgence towards what I may 
call my unofficial report. Well, I am pleased to say it is 
a good one (cheers), and I don't think even the veteri^n 
croakers (a laugh) who periodically spring up and tell us the 
Club is going to the dogs, will dispute that when they have 
heard what I have to say. I say it is a good one, for though 
we have not this year beaten many records, still records 
are not everything, and though we can enjoy life a good 
deal in a quiet way without them, I am pleased to say 
that I can, and I shortly will, quote two instances in which 
we have got to the top of the tree. Firstly, you will 
be glad to hear that the additions to our Club out- 
number our resignations by seven, 25 men have joined 
this year and 18 have resigned ; and here I must refer to 
the loss we have sustained in losing two of our oldest 
members — Charles Taylor and Ernest Carr. This is the 
first time a Captain in replying for his Club at our 
Annual Dinner has had to refer to such a painful 
topic, and I am very sorry it has come to me this evening. 
Charles Taylor I knew not. Those of his friends in 
the S.W., and he had many who did know him, speak 
of him as a genial companion and a warm-hearted man. 
Poor Ernest Carr I did know, and in losing him I feel that 
I have myself lost a friend. To refer to what is more 
pleasing, let me congratulate Arthur Herbert upon his 
return from Mentone improved in health, and able, as in 
May last, to take up his old stand upon the top of 
Marlboro' Hill, and there look after the well-being of his 
fellow clubmen in their long Whit-Monday ride (cheers) ; 
also let me say how much pleasure it gives me, and all who 
know him, to see once more among us one of our oldest 



Digitized by 



244 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



members, who has been at all times among the first to 
support every L.B.O. movement, and whose bad accident 
when riding down from the triple Meet at Dunstable in May 
last we all regretted deeply — I need hardly say that I refer 
to Walter Meyer. In the matter of road riding, and this 
after all is our raism cF&tre and the backbone of our 
existence, we have done our duty ; and our Meets have 
been fairly well attended, although our District Captains 
have not baited their traps this year with such charming 
attractions as romantic picnics and sentimental water 
parties. (Laughter.) The S.E. as usual, the brightest 
jewel in the Captain's crown (hear, hear, and laughter), again 
takes first place, and here is my first record ! Its average 
this year, gentlemen, amounts to 15.7 per run — the best 
average by a good deal that any district has ever hitherto 
reached. This splendid result comes mainly from the energy 
and popularity of its District Captain, R. 6. Francis 
(hear, hear) — a man who never spares himself when he 
has work to do ; also let me remind you, it is in part a 
natural sequence to the good work done in his District 
by his predecessors, Fred. Williams, Barker, and Brown. 
In the West our new and popular member, Harold Pigott, 
has fought a good fight with such heavy odds as leagues 
of macadam and preponderance of racing talent against him. 
Those who remember how hard some of us fought to estab- 
lish the W. District — the latest oflfspringof L.B.C. genius — 
will mark its progress with much interest under the manage- 
ment of our able new broom. I cannot but tell him that 
I think the present is a somewhat critical time in the history 
of his division ; however, if any man can make a success of 
the West H. C. Pigott is the man to do it (hear, hear), and 
none will be more pleased than shall I when that is obtained. 
So much for District Meets. Of Oeneral Meets we have 
had three : one at Halliford, when 54 men sat down to tea, 
as against 11 who attended the meet held there in the pre- 
vious year, though I am bound to confess that on the last 
occasion wind and weather were enough to keep anybody 
but a Spartan in bed. Our second General Meet was with 
Oxford and Cambridge at Dunstable, when 67 L.B.C. men 
attended, as against 63 members of our Club when the triple 
meet was held in that town in 1881. 35 Oxford and Cam- 
bridge men rode down to meet us in May last and, consider- 
ing that this town of straw is about as three-cornered a 
place to get at as Timbuctoo, these large numbers testify to 
the friendly feeling that is growing each year between 
the London, the Oxford, and the Cambridge men. In 
the N.E. we find our old D.C., Theo. Qodlee, has done 
good work, and with what — ^for the " little District " — was 
last year thought to be a hot average of 8.3 to beat, he has 
this year scored 8.8, and his July Paperchase will be long 
remembered in North-Eastern annals for the capital after- 
noon's sport that it afforded. In the S.W., R. M. Qruggen — 
the best of good fellows, and most genial of District Cap- 
tains (hear, hear) — has worked hard to increase the 



popularity of his runs ; but he has, I fear, suffered from a 
lack of material on which to work, and I know you will all 
congratulate him upon the recovery from his recent severe 
illness. In the N.W. we have rather suffered this year, and 
that from causes which, I hope, with the coming of the 
next riding season will have passed away. First, three or 
four of our steady-going riders over there have migrated to 
other districts, then one N.W. D.C. (Palmer Dalton) had 
to resign, half-way through the season, from ill health; 
and A. H. Lown, whom the District elected to fill his place, 
had, I fear, a hard fight to keep his men together. Let 
him, however, remember that the Club knows how hard it 
is for a D.C. to collect, half-way through the season, a District 
once scattered, and knows, too, that he worked his best. 
Let him remember that his efforts were not wasted, that he 
has in the N.W., ready to his hand, a nucleus for a 
large and thriving District, and that it is no new thing 
for other Districts to be visited by just such a passing 
cloud as is now resting upon the Northern Heights. 
Our third General Meet was at Harrow, and the 29 men 
who were there, will not soon forget the golden sunset that 
lightened up the valley, and the pleasant half-hour's chat in 
the prettiest of gardens on that warm August evening. 
Our time-honoured Easter Run from Bath came off as usual, 
and I had the pleasure of meeting eight L.B.C. men down 
there at our old headquarters ; also I started with them, 
but what befel them after Devizes, I know not. Truly when 
a Captain is expected to scorch up from Bath with the 
Whit-Monday flyers, his lot is not a happy one. This 
brings me to the Road Trial, and here I am pleased to say, 
though the Treasurer may frown, that ten medals were 
claimed— the Enamelled for a second time falling to the 
redoubtable H. R. Reynolds with the fast time of 7 hrs. 
28 min. for the 100 miles. (Cheers.) The great interest 
still felt throughout the Club in this event is shown by 
there having been 23 starters from Bath, of whom 16 rode 
through under ten hours. Well, gentlemen, in reference to 
this event, we hear of rumours of war, but threatened folks 
live long, and we may be sure that so long as we continue to 
carry it through in the future, as we always have done in the 
past, without in any way endangering tha safety of the 
public, we shall run no risk of interference at the hands of 
the authorities. (Cheers.) Concerning the adventures of 
our members, at home and abroad--of Dalton's romantic ride 
on the Goodwin Sands (a laugh), or of Barker's sentimental 
journey in the North of France, I have no time to speak ; but 
hasten on to racing matters. Here comes in my second record ! 
This year the tide has turned — ^fortune has favoured us, and 
I hope her smiles are but an earnest of future glory. 
Thanks to the grand riding of Reynolds, Wyndham, 
Jephson, F. L. Adam, Beck, and Oliver Thorn (cheers), we 
have this year beaten both Oxford and Cambridge in both 
matches in all three events. I am bound, however, to say 
our work was rendered much less difficult by events that 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



245 



we all alike regret — the illness of the two 'Varsity Captains, 
J. S. Whatton and W. F. M. Buckley. Here let me acknow- 
ledge, on behalf of my Club, the genial hospitality of the 
Cambridge men on the evening of the race ; and to G. N. 
Latham of Ours, and of the C.U.Bi.C, let me express my 
own thanks for that kindness which he showed to me, and 
in doing which I am sure he designed to pay a compliment 
on behalf of his men — to the London Bicycle Club. 
Well, Gentlemen, we have no champions this year in 
our ranks, but we have lots of rising talent ; and when 
we see the Club Miles at our summer and autumn 
meetings won by the young brothers of such old L.B.C. 
men as Oswald and Herbert, we find good reason for 
hoping and believing that the racing prestige of our 
Club will not fail in the future. (Hear, hear.) Now, 
Gentlemen, I hope I have said almost enough to con- 
vince you, if that were needed, that we have not wasted 
our time this year. I should like to tell you of our 
Dramatic Performance last winter, when what is called ** a 
large and fashionable audience " at 8t. George's Hall were 
delighted by the histrionic talent of our members, and the 
clever acting of charming Miss Ivan Bristowe (hear, hear) 
— but time flies. Then, again, there are two Smoking 
Concerts to do justice to. But the music of the last, with 
our friend Mr. Little as Corney Grain in " He did, and he 
didn't know why " is still present with you. (Laughter). 
Then there is the great question of encouraging the Tricy- 
clists, to which, thank goodness, you gave an effectual 
quietus last summer (cheers), showing plainly (as I think 
very rightly) that you intend to remain a Club of bicyclists 
— neither more nor less. Then there is the Member's 
Brother and his friend " Wyvern" (now in France) — there are 
Gruggen's remains at Oatlands Park — ^there is Brown's 
farewell to Francis and his reply, like that of the dying 
swan, sweetest before death. (A laugh). These and others 
crowd before me, but I leave them, and if I have wearied 
you, as I fear I must have done (No, no), please don't blame 
me, but search out " Porcupine," and^ visit your rage upon 
him for saying the Captain is bound to make a long speech, 
for he has the toast of the evening, and all the glories of 
the L.B.C. to recount." (Loud cheers.) 

Thbo. Godlbb was well received on his proposing the 
toast, " Other Clubs." His having the same toast entrusted 
to him as he had two years ago reminded him, he said, of 
the gentleman who, hearing a mendicant's dolorous story for 
the second time, remarked that he had heard it before and he 
did not like it then. (A laugh). He feared that a like remark 
might now be made to him. But when he remembered that 
the name of Mr. Hampton Roberts. was joined with the 
toast, he was sure it would meet with a hearty reception. 
(Cheers). While the toast-list was yearly decreasing in 
length, this particular toafit was increasing in importance ; 
for it was ever assimilating the toasts which succeeding 
captains thought it their duty to suppress. The Bicycle 



Union, the Visitors, and others had successively been 
omitted from the list ; and he apprehended that these were 
now to be included in the toast of *' Other Clubs." 
Though he would be perfectly justified in devoting half an 
hour to the recital of the excellencies of " Other Clubs " 
(Oh ! and laughter), he should yet confine himself to the 
Clubs that were represented. First, of course, came the 
Oxford and Cambridge Clubs (cheers), between whom and 
themselves the tie was so strong that "our University 
Division" might not improperly express their relation. 
He hoped this tie would long subsist, and even grow in 
strength. Among other Clubs who had representatives 
present were the Belsize, the West Kent, the Wanderers, 
the Pickwick, and the Civil Service ; and then there was 
a gentleman present whose Club it would be hard to 
specify — namely, Mr. Lacy Hillier. (Cheers). It used to 
be said that Mr. Hillier belonged to all the metropolitan 
Clubs and most of the country ones. (Laughter.) In con- 
clusion, he asked to include in the toast such visitors as 
were not strictly Club-visitors, and who might otherwise be 
left out of the toast-drinking. 

R. P. Hampton Roberts responded for " Other Clubs." 
As a member of his own club he was not, he said, supposed 
to know anything of other clubs ; but in his temporary 
position he was supposed to know a good deal about them. 
Each club, it seemed to him, had its speciality ; thus the 
charm of river picnics was associated with the Wanderers, 
the flavour of learning with the University clubs. And so 
with all. For him such advantages were supposed to have 
no charm — but they had. He admired whatever was good 
in his neighbours. At the same time he felt that there was 
no representative of another club present but had a secret 
< thought, while admitting the many excellencies of the 
L.B.C., that it would be better if modelled more on the 
basis of his own particular club. Speaking in his temporary 
capacity as the concentrated essence of all whom he repre- 
sented, and who for the moment must be supposed to be non- 
existent and to have sunk their souls in his (a laugh), he 
' thanked them. They of other clubs had listened with in- 
terest to the doughty deeds of the L.B.C. ; and with one 
voice they exclaimed, " long may it flourish ! " (Cheers). 

C. H. F. Christie said the toast he had now to give was 
one which makes every good man feel what was described 
in extreme youth and infancy as the still small voice of 
conscience." The officers and committee of the L.B.C. were 
a body of gentlemen who, for no possible good to themselves, 
undertook an amount of work and bother, and gave up an ex- 
tremely large part, and very often the whole of their spare 
time for the good of the Club, and often for the benefit 
of individual members. As he had said, they derived no 
advantage for it ; but do they, he asked, get what they 
have a right to expect — gratitude ? (A voice — " Yes.") 
As they all knew, they had rattling good officers ; but as 
it was natural to bully somebody or other, they were often 



Digitized by 



246 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



very much aggravated at general meetings. There was 
one officer who had a most unpleasant post — that, namely, 
of Treasurer. (Oh, yes ! and laughter.) The Treasurer 
was the one man who did not want to be let alone, and he 
was the one man who was persistently let alone (laughter) ; 
and how small the trouble of acknowledging those little 
notes with their inclosures ! But in many cases he did not 
receive such inclosures ; and hence the despairing appeals 
in the Gazette — '* Will members be good enough to pay 
their subscriptions?" The speaker could feel for that 
Treasurer. It was very rough on him. (A laugh.) They 
were an ungrateful lot ; and it was when this toast was 
proposed that they recognised the extent of their ingratitude. 
He urged each member to drink the toast in a proper 
manner, and show that he was not simply a discontented 
grumbler. Let them show that they were Englishmen 
after all, and drink this toast heartily. (Loud cheers.) 

R B. Hough responded. Thanking the company for 
the cordial response with which Mr. Christie's appeal had 
been met, he said he regarded the Annual Dinner as one of 
the brightest means of keeping up the happy understanding 
of the Club, and he took the present opportunity of thanking 
members generally for their energetic co-operation with 
those who take the official yoke upon them, which by this 
heartiness was made so light. Personally the work had been 
a great pleasure to him during the past two years ; which 
was a period that would ever in his mind be associated with 
pleasant memories. (Cheers.) But to-night he had to sound 
a pathetic note. He referred to the announcement of the 
retirement from the official roll, of the familiar names of 
Scrutton and Price. (Loud cries of " no ! ") It was 
unhappily a fact. During the past three years they had 
done excellent service, which the speaker was sure was 
appreciated by all. (Cheers.) In conclusion, he asked the 
members to accord in the future that hearty support which 
they had bestowed on the Officers and Committee in the 
past, and more especially to stand by them next Monday, 
when a resolution was to be proposed, which, if carried, 
would be equivalent to a vote of want of confidence in the 
Executive. (" No ! no ! " The S.E. corner of the table 
being observed to be much excited.) 

3. P. Smith proposed the health of *' The Racing Mem- 
bers." He observed that the next best thing to being a 
racing member one's self was to propose the health of the 
racing members. Although the season had not been so 
good as last year (Oh !), yet several new men had given 
promise of great things to come, so that the future of the 
Club in this respect would doubtless be worthy of the past. 
He mentioned one name — Beck. (Loud cheers). It was 
true they had no records, but he believed that had it not 
been for the unfortunate accident to Buckley, they would 
have had records. Next year he hoped would see Buckley 
on the path again. (Cheers). They had also lost the ser- 
vices of W. K. Adam, who he hoped would come back the 



the stronger for his voyage to New Zealand. (Cheers). 
Among others who were coming to the front in a remarkable 
way were Butler, the younger Whatton, and Oswald. 
(Cheers). He ought also to mention Mr. Oliver Thorn. 
(Loud and prolonged cheers). He would at all times have 
been welcomed as the brother of his brother, and he had 
made a position which next year it will be be hard to equal. 
(Cheers). 

0. Thoun returned thanks for his racing brethren and 
himself. He remarked that they had a good many promising 
men who would worthily take the place of those who had 
long been on the path, and thus the prestige of the L.B.C. 
would be sustained. (Cheers.) 

M. D. RucKER, at the request of the President, proposed 
the toast of "The Visitors," coupling with it the name 
of Mr. Edward Turner. Mr. Turner belonged to the 
Cambridge University Club, which with them was a very 
strong recommendation. 

Mr. Turner ably responded. He paid a graceful compli- 
ment to the President, whom he referred to as a fine 
example of " muscular Christianity." His personal expe- 
rience of bicycling was confined to a single attempt, when 
the machine ran with him into a window, the result being 
such severe injuries that he never attempted riding again. 
(Laughter.) He concluded by recalling the names of a 
few bicyclists who have distinguished themselves in the 
world of intellect — Keith-Falconer, Scrutton, C. A. Pollock, 
and others, and reasoning therefrom that mental vigour 
and bicycling were in some way connected ; and as rowing 
and cricketing seemed to lack any such connection, the 
case in favour of cycling was made all the stronger. 

H. 6. A. Brown proposed the toast of "The L.B.C. 
Gazette," joined with the name of the Editor, T. E. 
Scrutton. Asking himself what was the distinctive feature 
of the L.B.C., he said he felt inclined to say after the 
manner of Dr. Johnson " we abound in features." In the 
first place they, had a President who could ride ; second, a 
committee which was able to work and accomplish a great 
deal ; and third, racing men who would certainly compare 
with the members of any other club. Again, there was the 
Annual Bath Trial. But of all the features of the Club, 
there was none more important or admirable than the 
Gazette. It had become respectable in point of age, and 
the excellence of its matter and the able way in which it 
has been edited by a succession of clever men had, he 
believed, mainly contributed to its success. Mr. Scrutton 
and his assistant, Mr. Lloyd, had fulfilled their duties in a 
way that commanded the admiration and gratitude of the 
Club. (Cheers). He begged to join their names with the 
toast. (Loud cheers). 

T. E. Scrutton in replying, expressed his pleasure at 
hearing from Mr. Brown, what doubtless caused previous 
editors to writhe, that the Gazette this year had become 
respectable. He had, however, to lay the praise on those 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



247 



to whom it was due, on his friend the Suh-Editor (cheers), 
on whom had fallen the work of the dull season, while he 
was posing as the ornamental figurehead. Then there were 
the band of contributors on whom each Editor placed his 
reliance for the work of the Gazette — Godlee, Barrett, 
Francis, Williams, Brown, and others who preferred to blush 
unknown. Especially he referred to his two friends, N. H. 
and N. H., Jun., whose acquisition he regarded as the fea- 
ture of his year of office. He might use them as illustra- 
tions of the wisdom of sending in contributions to the 
Editor without waiting to be asked. He was ashamed to 
say he never suspected either of these gentlemen of any lite- 
rary genius until he saw their first MSS, and now he ranked 
them among his most valued contributors. (Cheers). It 
was hardly necessary to justify the existence of the Gazette, 



but he regarded it as the chief cause of the high tone of 
Club feeling and sympathy which, he believed, made them 
pre-eminent among other large clubs. (Cheers). 

H. C. Pioott proposed the toast of " The Ladies," and 

R. G. Fbancis responded. 

P. Dalton (in the absence of G. F. Beck) gave the 
health of " The Chairman," which was drunk with musical 
honours and ** three times three." 

The President responded in his usual sparkling style. 
He observed that he had had thoughts of resigning the 
presidency, which was loudly opposed ; but on his adding 
that he was about to give up the bicycle for the double 
tricycle, the cheers were renewed. 

The gathering closed, as usual, with " Auld lang syne " 
sung with joined hands, and foot on table. 



PLAN OF THE TABLE. 



HamptonBoberts. 
Godlee's Friend. 
Theo. Godlee. 
Godlee's Friend. 
C. H. Christie. 
Christie's Friend. 
H. N. Sharp. 

A. L. Potter. 

H. G. A. Brown. 
G. F. Beck. 

B. G. Frands. 



I 



I 



I 



-4 



I 



•3 

1^ 



I 

i 

I 



I 



I 



Q 



1 



I 



.3 



ha 



I 



Atkinson's Friend 
H. G. Atkinson. 
Atkinson's Friend 
F. Kinder. 
W. Wyndham. 
O. Thorn. 
H. C. Pigott. 
Pigott's Friend. 
J. Kinder. 
F. M. WiUiams. 



The O'ReUly. 
G. £. Schmettan. 
Marten's Friend. 
F. C. Marten. 
C. F. Schmettau. 
Badford's Friend. 
A. L. Badford. 
W. J. WiUiams. 
Lown's Friend. 
A. H. Lown. 



F. Elder. 
Elder's Friend. 
C. Wigan. 
W. E. Naylor. 



E. A. Weeks. 
C. Y. Lyne. 
A. Long. 
W. B. K Gibbs. 



J. W. Langmore. B. M. Long. 

Hawley's Friend. W. B. Sewell. 

A. H. Hawley. C. Newman. 

A. H. Koch. S. Barrett. 

J. W. Alison. H. J. Baldwin. 

P. Dalton. J. Bridge. 



W 

I 



G. L. Collier. 
J. D. Butler. 

D. A. Darling. 
G. H. Gibbs. 
Gerard Smith. 

E. H. Barrett. 
W. Meyer. 

E. D. Sewell. 
S. G. Hough. 
A. A Kelsey. 
A. Lloyd. 



Digitized by 



Google 



248 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



THE TANDEM BICYCLE. 

The Kucker " Tandem," of which the ilhistration below is 
a sketch, is clearly the Bicycle tocommend itself to the riding 
world, as the risk of falling which so often deters many from 
bicycling is entirely done away with, and it thus vies with the 
popularity of the tricycle, which is ridden by many who 
consider comparative immunity from danger not dearly pur- 
chased at the expense of a couple of miles an hour in speed, 
and prefer pottering to being tlirown headlong from the 
saddle at any odd moment. But it must not be compared 
to the various other Safety Bicycles, for in most of them 
either the advantage of height, or the position for driving, 
is given up for that idea of safety. With the " Tandem " 
the rider is exactly over his work, and without risk of going 
over the handles. 

The new invention of course is the straight backbone, 
weighing 16 lbs., doing away with the small wheels entirely, 
thus reducing vibration and friction to a minimum, whilst 
the pace up hill is much increased, owing to the rake being 
foi'wards instead of backwards as in the ordinary Bicycle. 
It can be fitted to any two " Rucker's," so that should one 
rider not be able to be present, the other can use his own 
wheel with a hind wheel as a single machine, rather than 
stay at home. 



Hills, however steep, may, on the " Tandem," be ridden 
down with impunity — Westerham, hitherto unrideable, 
having succumbed ; whilst large bricks, carts, or dogs, only 
afford enjoyment and recreation. 

The two South-Easters who have been riding it, 
swear by it, and any loss of dignity at first sustained 
by them, such as clinging to walls to mount, or riding 
at night to avoid observation, is easily forgotten in the 
proud moments of drawing Latin from the Club Scholar, 
or reducing demons of the McBae " tjrpe to beads of 
perspiration. 

Certain it is that great pace can be obtained on it, and 
should it become generally used, we may confidently expect 
the Bath record to be beaten. 

It requires little or no practice from the ordinary bicycle 
rider, and the advantage of two friends being together 
whilst touring, etc., is evident to all. 

That many more will be on the road next season 
we hope, and that also the present expressions of wonder 
and excitement exhibited by the rustic and other intel- 
ligent males when passed by the " Tandem " will assume 
that stolid indifference which is now caused by the ordinary 
bicycle. 

Zulu. 




SMOKING CONCERT. 
Our winter campaign was successfully opened on Wed- 
nesday, November 7th, in the Queen's Room of the " London 
Tavern," Fenchurch Street. Through the thick smoke, not 
of cannon, but of "the calumet — the Peace-pipe," we were 
enabled after a short space of time, during which we ex- 
perienced a severe tingling about the eyes, to discover an 
unusually large muster of members, who,'from the enthusiasm 



they displayed at the conclusion of the various items, were 
unanimous in their appreciation of the proceedings. 

Oliver Thorn opened the programme with a song, " Out 
on the deep," and F. N. Large, C. Y. Lyne, and Gr, E. 
Schmettau then rendered the terzetto " Vanne a colei che 
adoro " with very good taste ; aft^r which W. A. Smith 
gave " The brave old Temeraire " in a very spirited manner, 
and Mr. 6. L. Hillier, in " Sharps and Flats," quite upset 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE 



CLUB GAZETTE. 



249 



the audience as lie retired amidst loud applause to " the 
bo-de-ga." After R. Newman had sung "Sailing," C. E. 
Sbannan displayed his abundant fund of humour in the 
scena, ** The Jackdaw of Rheims/' and that most pathetic 
song, " My Mary Jane." C. Y. Lyne and G. E. Schmettau 
both scored successes, the former in " The Vagabond " and 
the latter in "Good night, fair maid," to which, as an 
encore, he added " Til sing thee songs of Arabi," which 
completed the first part of the programme. 

At this point £. T. Sachs treated the company to a most 
entertaining conjuring performance, which quite justified 
the Captain's epithet of *' world-renowned," and it would 
be difficult to say which of the tricks was the most 
mysterious, as all attempts to solve them on our part 
have resulted in utter failure. 

The programme was continued with the trio, " When the 
wind blows," which was very much appreciated. H. W. 
Bridges provoked much laughter in " The Chinaman with 
the Roman Nose," which was given as an encore to " The 
Little Powder Monkey." Mr. Campbell Rae Brown, who is 
evidently an efficient in the art, recited " Kissing Cup's 
Race," his own composition, and also the " Progress of 
Madness," with great effect. The next item on the pro- 
gramme, " He did, but he didn't know why," was given with 
great humour by Mr. C. P. Little, who put such an amount 
of expression into it, that we laughed to the extent of 
being obliged to hold on to a neighbouring chair. After 
great applause, the topical song by Oswald and Rucker, 
which contained some capital points, followed ; and then 
Mr. Little, in response to loud calls, sang " Eighteen and 
three " in very comical style. 

W. A. Smith brought a most successful evening to a close 
with singing " Tell her I love her so," in which he appeared 
to great advantage. 

The thanks of the Club are due to all those who helped 
make the evening a success, and more especially to Mr. 
C. P. Little, who accompanied throughout most willingly 
and ably. 

To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 
Sib, — I think with " Imprimatur " tlmt a policy of 
isolation does not tend to our welfare, and for some time I 
have thought that our Club has sought too much a monkish 
seclusion from the world, while it has neglected those means 
that most tend to increase its ranks. Barnum, the worldly 
wise, says that, " having £lOO in his pocket wherewith to 
start business I would spend £99 thereof in advertisement." 
Doubtless he is right, for the day has passed when merit 
unaided can triumph. Competition, so keen that it hardly 
leaves room to live, has destroyed its chance, and merit 
must now climb on to the housetops and shout and 
advertise in the Daily Telegraph, Without advocating a 
return to the old days, when every detail of our Club life 



was reported in the weekly public press and commented 
upon too frequently in no friendly or impartial spirit, yet 
I think we have, to our own hurt, for the last few years 
neglected to cultivate such relationships with the papers as 
might have secured for us friendly reports of our Annual 
Dinners, Smoking Concerts, and of other events we have 
undertaken. By all means let our Gazette be complete in 
itself, as it certainly has been ; let it give the L. B. C. man 
all necessary news about what goes on within and without 
his Club; but let us remember, as " Imprimatur " points 
out, that the public press is a most important agent in 
informing the outside world and the rising generation of 
wheelmen of the existence of an L. B. C. 

Our old members disappear and as fast or even faster 
than they go, new blood should come into our system. 
Growth should more than keep pace with decay, and this 
will, I think, be brought about if our committee do but 
avail itself discreetly of the great power of the Fourth 
Estate. It must be noted that now-a-days the only 
information an unattached rider gets of our Club is the 
brief report of our Yearly Race Meeting, or perhaps he 
may see an occasional paragraph commenting upon the 
undesirability of Road Races in general, and of the L. B. C. 
Road Trial in particular. Of such an exclusive policy the 
natural outcome is that candidates for membership are 
proposed only by members, and that rarely, if ever, do we 
find outsiders, unacquainted with any of our men, eager to 
join our ranks. This last, which I take to be one of the 
best proofs of vitality is, I fear, wanting ; but it might, I 
think, be brought about if more pains were taken to inform 
outsiders in an unostentatious and legitimate way of the 
advantages they would derive from membership of our 
Club. I must not close without saying that anything 
approaching a touting advertisement would be as repugnant 
to my feeling as to that of any other L.B.C. man ; 
but I must quite dissent from those who say that our Club 
is now as large as it need be, and I strongly believe that 
good would come from frequent reference in the public 
papers to our Club work, and from a liberal encouragement 
of visitors at our Club Runs. Let me point out that our 
policy lately has tended in the direction of stifling these 
two sources of growth. Octopus. 



To the Editor of the London Bicycle Club Gazette. 

Sir, — I have read, with some astonishment, the letter of 
** Imprimatur " in your last issue, and have vainly tried to 
make its end fit into its beginning. Even if we assume that 
the facts which he mentions are related to one another by 
more than accident — if " false pride " or " self-imposed 
isolation " are " preying on our vitals," why are we not one 
penny the worse for the process ? but to quote once again, 
why are we " now as strong as " before we were afflicted ? 

If the result of our maintaining our Club at its very 
satisfactory strength, and filling up our ranks every year as 



Digitized by 



Google 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. 



the old members retire is " the reason why so many other 
clubs increase and multiply in the way they appear to do/' 
it occurs to me that we are benefiting cycling generally, at 
no cost whatever to ourselves. 

But joking apart, I think the real fallacy in your corres- 
pondent's letter is the idea that increasing is the one thing 
to be aimed at. I do not care to contest the theory that 
the Gazette has reduced our elections, though I very much 
doubt it ; but assuming this to be the fact, I do not think 
we are losers. The L.B.C. is, we are proud to believe, the 
most first-rate collection of athletes in the metropolis. 
It is, I venture to think, quite large enough for working 
purposes, and I think we may trust to our own members to 
introduce their friends, and to sing our praises to their 
friends, without seeking such a position as, say the L.A.C.» 
which, while placing us in an exalted athletic position 
would, I fear, seriously interfere with the social element 
which is necessarily so important a factor in a bicycle club, 
whether it be given to winter amusement or confine its 
attention strictly to bicycling proper. 

I think it only right to add that I have not the dimmest 
notion who " Imprimatur" is, and I hope he will not think 
I am abusing him, as I doubt not that he is a most valuable 
addition to the Club.— Yours, etc. W. X. W. 



QUILLS. 

" Aristotle and Pliny ddiver it that the porpentine casteth off his quills 
when he would attack, or defend himself, but Diosooridee affinneth it a 
point of foUy to believe it."— Sir T. Bbowni. 

The Smoking Concert was, all things considered, a great 
success. True, it was a bad room for singing, and true, 
there were draughts, but the men present (150), were not 
crowded and seemed to enjoy themselves ; and it is really 
very difficult to .get, for anything like a reasonable sum, a 
room in which •so many men can be put, which shall be 
well ventilated and singable. 

If I may find fault, the men wouldn't take up the 
choruses. It adds greatly to the ''go" of a concert of that 
sort if every other song at least has a good chorus in which 
everyone joins ; men take far more interest in the music, 
and the whole entertainment is put on a firee and easy 
footing, which helps its success greatly. 

The Dinner was as usual marked by one feature, in which 
as far as I know, it surpasses most other dinners — the 
amount of noise. It is very gratifying as an evidence of 
Club good feeling to have one prominent member after 
another received with " great cheering and musical honours/' 
and there was, if possible, more than the usual enthusiasm 
this year. 

In fact the toast of the L.B.C. bid fair, under the 
manipulation of Hampton Roberts last year, and Crofton 
this, to become fixed in one "common form." 

Mr. A. proposed the toast of the evening, " the health of 



the London Bicycle Club. " He said, " when he contemplated 
the greatness of the Club, he felt his own unworthiness. 
(No, no). When he mentioned that the L.B.C. had on 
the racing path, B. (loud cheers) ; C. (ditto) ; D. (ditto) ; 
and the rest of the alphabet, each letter received with 
great enthusiasm ; that it had on the road, E. (loud cheers, 
and repeat [same form) ; at the Union, F. (and as before) ; 
he need say no more, but ask them to drink, etc." Mr. A. 
resumed his seat amid great cheering, having been on his 
legs twelve minutes, of which two were speech and ten 
applause. 

• ••••• 

Speculation was rife a^ to the reason why the toast of 
the L.B.C. was so early in the list. It was at last discovered 
that the Captain, anxious to enjoy the pipe of peace, had 
arranged to get his speech and his misery over as soon as 
possible. 

Twenty-seven North-Easters were reported to be at the 
dinner ; this shows the self-sacrificing heroism of the "little 
district." Tliis is further established by the fact that the 
N.E. average this year, is, in comparison with the number 
of members in the district, better than the S.R 

The S.E. comer of the table was not remarkable for its 
quietness. This is said to have been caused by the Editor's 
having fallen as a North-East lamb among South-East 
wolves, and being usually in deadly combat with four of 
them at once as to Club politics ; the only diversion being 
furnished by a well-known ex-Editor, who impartially 
attacked everybody. [Note. — We were a noisy. Ed.] 

I am requested by the Editor to state that only a few of 
the dinner speeches are reported verbatim. Some others 
are curtailed at the request of the speakers; some on 

account of demands of space. 

• ••••• 

I regret to hear that some prominent members of the 
Committee contemplate resignation in consequence of the 
vote of Monday night. I earnestly hope they will 

reconsider their determination. 

• • • • • • 

0. P. Coleman has been elected on the executive of the 

National Cyclist's Union. 

• • • • • • 

There is to be a large contingent of the North-East at 
the S.E. Ball, and I hope the Western Districts will follow 
their example. Pobcupdse. 

SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING. 

The Special General Meeting, called at the requisition of 
H. 11. Heynolds and others, was held at the " City Arms " 
on the 26th November. 

The Captain took the chair, and 44 members were present. 

H. 6. A. Brown proposed, and R. G. Fkakcis seconded — 

That the Anniud Bsce Meeting for 18S4 be held at the 
CrjBtAl PalAoe." 

H. G. A. Bbown said, that the most prominent racing 



Digitized by 



LONDON BICYCLE CLUB GAZETTE. •» 251 



men were in favour of his proposal ; that the track was far 
better, and more 'convenient for people. He announced 
that the Directors had agreed to put up a grand stand, and 
alleged that, from a financial point of view, the merits of 
the two grounds were equal. 

A. W. Babrbtt explained that the Committee were not 
definitely pledged to Stamford Bridge, and then proceeded 
in a very amusing speech to dwell on the disadvantages of 
the Crystal Palace. Two female cousins and their brother 
could be taken to Stamford Bridge for three shillings, but 
it would take 12s 6d to treat them to the Crystal Palace. 
When there, they stood in a sloping loose box given over to 
the British rough, with no seats, shelter from rain, or re- 
freshments. In finance there was no room for argument ; 
the Crystal Palace Meeting was a rank failure ; we had lost 
£10 this year, and should lose £20 next year. Oliver 
Thorn, Wyndham, and Butler, as racing men, were in favour 
of the proposal. 

T. E. ScauTToN spoke against the motion on grounds of 
finance and general inconvenience. 

S. P. Smith, in supporting the motion alluded to the 
number of meetings competing with the Crjrstal Palace 
Meeting last year. 

F. M. Williams urged that the fact that, apart from the 
Committee, a quorum of members was not present showed 
that the Club had confidence in the Committee's decision. 

A. H. LowN, as a N.W. man, supported the motion, as 
did also H. K Rbtnolds. 

Olivee Thorn opposed the motion in the interests of 
racing men. He knew a good many ladies (loud cheers), 
and Stamford Bridge was the most convenient place for 
seeing them. 

C. Nbwman (against), Alfred Herbert, Arthur Her- 
bert, Coleman (for), A. Eoch (against), and M. D. Ruokbr 
abo spoke. 

H. Q. A. Brown replied. He hoped the result would be 
that the Meeting would be always held at the Palace ; and 
dealt in some detail with the arguments of the opposition. 

On a division the members were : — For the motion, 26 ; 
against, 13 ; (five members did not vote): 

The motion was therefore carried. 



A Rn)E ACROSS FRANCE INTO SWITZERLAND. 
(OoMTnruxD from paox 289.) 

We Spent Sunday at Versailles, going to the English 
church in the morning, and spending the afternoon in seeing 
part of the palace — ^it would take a week to see the whole — 
and grounds and listening to the band. Unfortunately we 
could not see the wonderful fountains, as they only play 
on the first Sunday in each month. 

Next morning we had a fair run as far as Choisy, which 
we had to walk through, and then to get over three miles 
of pav4 on the main road in the same style ; so were glad 
to stop at Villeneuve-St. -Georges (18 miles) for lunch. 



Thence we had a better road, though with firequent paved 
villages, through M^lun (34 miles from Versailles) to 
Montereau. M^luu is a clean little town, with a rather 
handsome hotel de vUU, etc., but after our experience at 
the " Hotel St. Nicholas" last year we ^id not feel disposed 
to stop there. Three or four miles out of Montereau we 
overtook a local telegraph messenger on a machine con- 
sisting of a 86 or 40-inch front wheel, over which he sat, 
and two small wheels behind, between which was a box in 
which he carried his d^ches. It was guiltless of rubber, 
and made as much noise as a fire engine ; but the pace at 
which the owner got along, especially uphill, was really 
surprising : it is needless to say, however, that we soon left 
him behind. Almost directly afterwards we were challenged 
by a man with a fast trotting horse, which was also satis- 
factorily disposed of, though not quite so easily. The 
approach to Montereau is pretty— down a winding hill 
overlooking the Seine. The " Hotel du Grand Monarque " 
being full, we put up at the Croix Verte," and had no 
• reason to regret the change. Distance for the day, 
52} miles. 

From Montereau to Sens (22 miles), through Pont-sur- 
Yonne is an easy run, except that several long paved 
villages have to be walked through between the first and 
last named towns. Things used to be worse in this respect 
than they are now, for when Norman Morris passed this 
way in 1876, there were four and a half kilometres of pav6 
in the open country near Villeneuve-le-Guyard. This has 
now been taken up ; they were at work upon the last por- 
tion of it when we passed this year. 

Starting from Montereau about 8.30, we hoped to lunch 
at Sens and sleep at Tonnerre (67 miles) but, as usual, we 
were disappointed. We had not gone a mile before Williams' 
front wheel again locked suddenly, — a nasty fall over the 
handles being only avoided by great presence of mind and 
agility. The troublesome process of taking ofiT the crank 
and undoing the bearings had to be gone through by the 
roadside, with the result of finding that the outer 
(adjustable) plate of the bearings was badly cracked. We 
found also that the set-screw which should have fixed this 
plate was broken and did not act, thus allowing the plate, 
which moved very easily, to be screwed up gradually by the 
firiction of the hub until the balls were jammed. After 
some discussion Williams very pluckily decided to go on, 
and take his chance of a cropper, rather than break up 
the party. 

Thanks to this detention and the/MZv/ above referred to, 
we did not reach Pont-sur-YonneXl4 miles) till past eleven ; 
so stopped and had a very good cUjsuner at an hotel 
(de TEcu) with a most unpromiring exterior, which we had 
passed as hopeless until we were assured there was no other. 
After lunch the Doctor was dispatched, in charge of the 
chambermaid, to the telegraph office for the purpose of 
telegraphing to London for a new bearing to be sent to 



Digitized by 



Google 



252 



LONDON BICYCLE. CLUB GAZETTE. 



Dijon. The old gentleman, who was found presiding over 
this somewhat primitive establishment, said he had never 
been called upon to telegraph to London before, and seemed 
to feel highly honoured at l^ing requested to do so, spelling 
out the English words most carefully, and taking a great 
deal of trouble over the message. 

After leaving Pont-sur-Yonne only the towns are paved, 
or, at all events, very few of the villages,' and it is no 
longer necessary to dismount every two or three miles on 
account of those infamous French cobbles. 

The cathedral at Sens is well worth a visit ; it contains 
some curious old painted glass, and the trSsors preserved in 
the sacristie are very interesting. These consist of some 
very fine old tapestry, splendid Limoges enamels, ivory 
carvings, and a number of valuable antiquities which have 
been brought here from different churches in the diocese 
for safe keeping. Near the further end of the town is a 
very curious old timber-built house, to which an extra- 
ordinary amount of antiquity is assigned. 

Between Sens and St. Florentin there are two roads. 
The main road through the town goes through Joigny, and 
makes a very considerable circuit, following the course of a 
river ; it is, I believe, nearly level. But there is a more 
direct, though rather hilly, route vid Cerisiers, and this we^ 
determined to take. Turning to the left near the entrance 
to the town, we followed the road to Troyes as far as 
Malay-le-roi, where we turned off to the right for Cerisiers. 
So far there is nothing difiBcult, but the hill out of Cerisiers 
is a stiff one, and is best walked, though one of our party 
rode it. After this the road ascends gradually for several 
miles, but all quite ridable and with good surface. At the 
141st kilometre stone (distance from Paris) a long run 
down begins and continues to the junction with the other 
road near St. Florentin. Going the other way the gradients 
would be less favourable, and probably the longer route 
would be best. It is ll\ miles from Sens to Cerisiers, and 
16 miles on to St. Florentin. On arriving at the latter 
place we found we should not be able to reach Tonnerre 
Defore dark, so put up at the " Hotel de la Porte d'llo," fair, 
at the upper part of the town. A bagman with a swivel eye, 
who sat opposite to us at the table d'/iote, afforded us great 
amusement, first trying to show off his importance by 
bullying the waiter roundly, and then emptying almost the 
whole of a large dish of wild strawberries on to his own plate, 
after making a great show of politeness in helping us first. 
Distance for the day 49} miles. ^ 

(7b be continued). 



THE BOXING DAY PAPERCHASE. " . 

The arrangements made by tt^'Siib-Committee appointed 
for this purpose are as follows': — Tlie hares will be started 
from the King's Arms," Katharine Street, Croydon, at 
one p.m., and after running a more or less circular course, 
will return to the starting point about four p.m. At the 
" King's Arms," washing and dressing accommodation will 
be provided (at a charge of 3d. each), and warm baths for 
those who may require them (at a cost of Is.) At five 
p.m. dinner will be served (at a charge of 3s each), and 
as a piano will be provided it is hoped that members .will 
not forget to bring a few songs clown with them. The 
Committee also hope that members and friends who may 
not be able to join in the Chase will come/to the Dinner, 
and assist afterwards at the social evening. 

Oliver Thorn (W.) and A. Barker (S.E.) have been 



appointed hares, and J. C. Oswald (S.E.) and A. W. Barrett 
(N.E.) will act as pace-makers. By this last arrangement 
the pack will be kept in hand, and will work more or less 
together until four or five miles from home, when the pace 
makers will give the word " to scatter," and the hounds 
will make for Croydon by any route th^y please. 

Prizes will be given to the first three hounds, being 
members or memb^'s brothers, that either catch both hares, 
or failing that, first reach the "King's Arms"; but the 
pace makers are empowered to disqualify from a prize any 
one who refuses to work with the rest of the pack until 
the before mentioned order has been given, or who covers 
any of the distance otherwise than on K>ot. 

No entry fee will be required, and members are invited 
to introduce anv friends who may be interested in the 
sport. Those who intend to run are requested to inform 
me by Deeember 20th of their intention, though their not 
having done so need not prevent them from joining at the 
last moment. Also, I shall be glad to receive the names of 
those who wish to dine at the " King's Arms," that the 
necessary arrangements may be made. No rule as to dress 
can be laid down, since some members intend running in 
knickerbockers and stockings, some in trousers and socks, 
and others in University costume; but probably those 
adopting the last will be in a considerable minority. The 
hares will start at one o'clock punctually, but in the event 
of there having been continuous frost, and consequently 
skating, the Chase will be postponed. 

The train for East Croydon leaves Victoria, 11.50 a.m. ; 
London Bridge, 12.5 p.m. 

Ashley W. Barrett, Captain. 

42, Finsbury Square, E.C. 
{Far ik$ SufhOonmiUee appomUd to conduct the abwe,) 



PRACTICE FOR THE PAPERCHASK 
On the following Friday evenings (November 30th, 
December 7th, December 14th, December 21st), some 
members of the N.E., and two or three men from other 
districts will rendezvous at Forest Gate Station, Essex, at 
7.30 p.m., and Snaresbrook Station at 8.45. We shall be 
glad of the company of any who may care to join us in a 
short run of an hour or so over good gravel paths. A train 
leaves Liverpoot Street Station at 7.10 p.m., and the 
opportunity for cl^anging into running dress, with washing 
accommodation, etc., will be provided for those who may 
wish for it. Ashley W. Barbbtt. 



CHANGE OP ADDRESS. 
A. Morley, Astley Bank, Lewisham Hill, Blackheath, S.E. 
T. 6. Nevill, 10, Compton Road, Canonbury, N. 
H. S. Jackson, Letchford s Buildings, Bethnal Green, E. 
N. B. Morris, 121, Bishbpsgate Street, Within, E.C. 
F. Kinder, 20, Lincoln's Inn Fields, W.C. 



NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. 
All contributionB must be addressed to " The Editor, L.B.C. Gazette, 
S5, Eastcheap, £.0.,*' and mnst bear the name of the author, though not 
necesBarily for insertion. They must be written on one side of the 
paper only, and, if immediate insertion is desired, must be received not 
later than Tuef^day evening. 

Printed for the Proprietors by Darling Sl Son, at the Minerva Steam 
Printing Office, 35, Eastcheap, London, E.C.— November 29, 1883. 



Digitized by 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



