“MASON'S 


_ DELICIOUS © 


OK. 


No. 20,841 
. INTIMATION 


a FRESH i shocss 


ee 


” ALLSOPPS. 
vss .. BRITISH-. 
PUSENER BEER 


: Spectally breyed 
» FORT 
- HOT CLIMATES. 
SOLE, AGENTS: 


’ CALDBECK, 
MACGREGOR * 


' & CO, LTD. 
15, QUEEN'S ROAD, 
Tr 75 Cexteat.: 
ni tg [51 
SPORTING. 


SFORTING GUNS. by W. W. GREER 
"wand Other Makerse-British, French. 
» American—alao § SPORTING OARTEIDGES 
wof all descriptions, *. - 


vu cordial 
eT este seo | 


_fow'on view at our 


" THE Seeeore SPORTING . ABMS . 


AND AMMUNITION STORE, 
5.6, BRaconsrreLD ArcaDR. . | 
: : 129 


‘PEAK TRAMWAYSCO.. 
TIME “TABLE. : 
Wr Dare, 
70am. 


9.80 otc: to 11.00 ms tebe 


i @¥80 8, 12.30 
" 12.40 


4 every 10 minutes So 


"700'am, . 7.10 os Sane gig 
Van am-to 9.20. Tovey 
380 ony 1100 iy ow. 10; 


: RxtiwCar—13 midnight, 
tp ae = Burvars 
pm 20, pio. ; 
over Sonal Bi 


S-tREESRom AMTACEIR 


: ' ‘The Ballwa: 
table will coanect with the the trains as showz. 
Farther i 


| lag TA BLIBEED | 


“RONGKONG, ' 


_ KOWLOON CANTON 


; TIME-TARLE, . 


“Un and ate DAY, Suersaaas 15rn, 1933, until tuither' ‘Nation 
(All previous Time Tables cancelled). : 


5 E: 
nie 


CRGGESEE. 
ZEERGEES 


le iE 


Biiasiigs 


BIE 


& 
BS 


: © "Will atop at Taipo and 8 hui, ¢ on Sundays and Public Holldays, 
for First-Class fos sa on Natize sno blag somber 1. Kowloon. 
Sheungahe: for 
Kowloon. 


Seiad TAU KOK BRANCH. 


ing weep. 745 1130 Ban te Shatdukek. wdep. 420 iis. fae boa 7 
fesng en 1 12.25 8.15 7.15 Ferre wart. 7.28 1210. 08 $55 
an! HOTIOE ENG 


tO P. HRA, 
F Admizistration do not panrantes that the ferries’ ‘meatiensd i vas 


information may be obtained at the Kailwe * Offices, Kealeer, 
from’ Messrs. Tos. Oooxr & Som, Hoagkonr,: «7 trom The “American Exprees 


= JT. ‘SHAW. - 


“Tel. 693 Central. . 


_NEW ‘SUITINGS.. 


» for the e 
> AUTUMN | 
A+ Fine Assortment of All the Best. Materials used for 
GENT’S SUITS. 
as Equally Suitable also fpr ‘ 
ee SMART TAILOR | MADES. 


i he 


No. 1, Beaconsfield: Arcade 


(Opposite ' City Hall). 


ff STH TE | (SIRE | o. 


£1,000. en attaining age of the Fifty-five 

‘ Preceimais moderate, ; _ Conditions liberal, 
| Partindars from! i 
i | DODWELL ‘&CO, um,: 

7s Queen's Brite. 


1UESDAY, “SEPTEMBER. 


. To, Central 9313. 


class pesséngers @n cotios borne : 


HL P. WINSLOW, Manager. ‘| 


‘1887. 
eon 


ATH 1933. = 


RAILWAY, |HONGKON G, GANTON & MACAO), 


_STEAMERS. 


--doneiSaanah o¥ THE Honaxoxa, cokd, Cusron ASD ideo [NTRAMBOAT, . 
“So, Larp.; .; aN THE Cana Navigation 00. Lr. 


an 
. 9 extwene. 


HON GKO NG-CANTON. LINE. 
“Fon bs ston daly ie bAioraiae Ta a 


ci-° HON GKONG—MACAO ‘LINE. .. 
~ ae to Mecap=Dally at 8 am, (Sundays ai Samonly}, © + 


Sailings from Macso—Daily at 3 pm (Sundays abd pa roaly)... 2% 


a “Farther: information me ‘be obtained ab the C a Offica, 4 Cont ral 
: "Wears Twos. Coox & Sow, te the Americin exprea ( sre id a Vac toe 


ongkongi 


"P.O Box 530. 


PaaBELINE: PEARSON . 
- AFTERNOON -AND EVENING © 
GOWNS 


CHARMING HATS AND FLOWERS 
_ Arriving’ from. Paris Next, Week. 


St. George's Buildings, too. House. Street: 
(Next to. Oafe Wiseman). 


|r. Contral, 12318. P.O, Box 530 


"HAWTHORNE. & PEARSON 


“LADIES” & GENTLEMEN'S TAILORS | 
‘AND BREECHES. ‘MAKERS - 


; Sty. George's Buildings, Ice House Street ts 


Next: to Cate Wiseman. 


lotels” 


J APAN. AND- 
MANCHURIA | 
-.Members of Japan Hotel ssceintlos 
" c/o, Trarnic Borgav, Dxpr. oF Batways, Toxr6. ,, 


2 Average: Rates tor Single Rooms (without. Bath) including scale 
; . Y, 10—1937in cities and some popular resorts, — 
¥,, 8—10 in country, districts, oe oe 


IN. JAPAN PROPER . 


‘IN TAIWAN (FORMOSA) 
: “Taiko +~Talwan Railway Hotel 
“IN CHOSEN “IN MARCHUBIA 
Fosan 
Foran Station Hotel) ; oe er ol 
” _ Keijo (Seoul) — - eee i ; 
es Hotel 1 Yaaato Hote ; 


Bhingishas— “Hoek 
een Hote. a ee 


“tO. 


" Rypion Pe Fort rhe) 


“AND ‘Moy tre ° 
FEELING oF RELIEF 


“FROM PAIN poe 
“ye You: ust: 7 


-Joorrect T EYEWEAR] « 
| oN. LAZARUS, 

_ Optician, ° 
a 18 Guo Ro 


ROTEL 


ue rasa FAR EASTERN: 


_ ROTELS.. 


a anteannerien fae Fn 


= HONGKONG :~ s=-Homaxono Hoes 


4 PERING?=Guars foeerom WiserLer 


Tax: Howoxoxe Herm Co, La. 
E In conjunction with fa 
Ta Seareass Homa, Tap, , 

- . tee “ani : . 
Tas ning Hacetoiit Winn Ries Eas ; 


“ Ie ING. BDWARD- 


HOTEL: °° 
(CENTRAL LOCATION 
: Elostels Letts and Lightmng 
Telephone en each floor, ; 
Hate Lauseh’ moots all Bteen ers, I 
Talspnena Centra! Ne. 372 

cupid Vuorons. 
ne bo a 


F VICTORIA HOTEL : 
CANTOR.) 


a Only 4 vein leis Hongkong ong bya inert ve 


: 7 bours mM pio chem os : 


2 Th Only E 
Costing lacey sader Beropecs 


-Ofiga Hel forall the ladtag 
eee eee 


at been” renovated 
‘| brough : up-to-date, natndiog one of the ment 
Orient, 1922, . 


pasions Toanges in tho 
ae CHRISTOPHER ‘BUTTOS, 


g 


PALACE HOTEL, KOWLOON 


Cortiey ‘of Halphong & Bosker Nae f 
To. EB 


Di Minter fs fom 3 m Perry and Balivag 


Station, This Hotel which bas 


Q inn ee ee: and 
ow ap-to-da! etna oe 
; ip ish Mack 


‘EW DINtXG: ROOM opened f for 
"Mealsya Jw Carte. © 
Excellent Cuinine, 


. CONCESSIONS (AT /AN END. 
“Mr, Poincaré unveiled 2 war memorial 
at Sentis on July 15th. ‘The ‘town niurks 
one of the points at which the Germans 
turned: back from their ‘march on Paris 
on the eye of the. Battle of the Marne, 


» | M. Poincaré in his speech ‘referred. to the’ 


. 5 a 
Label waich os 


Fae \ Cent 


on | | 


“Price: ‘Per Ca 


i 


No, 8, QUEHN’S ROAD OBNTBAL 


; Tel. Central No: 135. * ‘HONGEONG. .. 083 


“DAIRY FARM NEWS — 


KRAFT LOAF CHEESE 
"No Rind—No Waste-10 | 
~ 80 cents~ Per Ibs- 


AUSTRALIAN CHEDDAR ~ 
i “ . *»Blavour Unequalled —— st 
80 cents Per. Ib.» 


Cheese 


-” COULOMMIER. » 
; Own Make > 
. 4Q cents Per Pat. 


LOTOL 


« Oogppay’ O 
Oe 0: 
 LOTOL. 


wo 


\ REPUSE SUBSTITUTES: 


2 7 ; t 


ELECTRICAL » 


epee Get a : estituate : from: 


‘of our’. Drngs, Medicines ® 
let’ Goods ‘is woe at : ? 
joctor's Py 


rthe result 


. any “piece of foreign soii,; Wi 


a 


Jour : friends -exclaim, - Do not think of 


+ ruin, Make concessions; then, in the som. | 


‘Jwas siguid 
| ing concessions! Tt is an ingnit tocrepre- 


_.-Enro 


“}neas of view, 


-of his debto 


) enemy, 


“eye. a 


‘| tiong” in ‘which. the 
}determine.the amount of the German debt.. 


opiwe always lost xeme porti 
| Schedule of Payments which ‘the Repara- 


relations. between France, and her’, Alties 
and the “recent . differences of poligy in re 
gard" to reparations. : E 
Pointing out that trance had gained no 
territarial ndvantages from her victory | 
except the returw of the lost provinces, M. 
‘Poincaré ‘said ‘that- friendly: Powers had 
extended their frontiers and had succeeded: 
in certain cases in baving- them redrawn 
in accordance with their strategic intérests. 
France had: declared ‘herself ‘satisfied, “be- 
“cause she had-never dreamt of conquest 
nid becatise she thought the tims. was 
past for aunexations made against the will ¢ 
of the popitlation. How hd thes heen 
rewarded for theif whalom. and madera. 
tion? The: ink of the ‘sigiatures to the 
Treaty of Versailles was hardly dry hefore 
choruses’ organized by ‘Germany began to 


"| chant everywhere the xame strain, ‘Belli 
‘| coxe France, militarist France, [mperialis 


France,” However noisy, those agitatio 
they broke down before the truth.“ "| 
- We do vot covet (M. “Poincaré: declared) 
i yo° wish only 
that a treaty ~algned—by twenty-eight 
nations shal]-not be considered.after. fou 
years as an antediluvian fossil for oxi! 
tion in archwological museums to'a few | 
astonished visitors. It seems that:that 4s 
too much to agk, and when, we farmniate | 
this demand with" moderation certain of | 


itt All that is ancient history. "The | 
world has revelved, All Europe has fallen 
il, = The, first need is .to “reconstitute 
Europe, and for that it is necessary above 
all to prevertt Germanyfrom sinking into 
moh interest.” Conecssions! Siuce peare 
rance hag never ceased mak- 


sent her ‘ns egotiationl, thinking only of | 
fierself. ind indifferent: to., the -hea'th of 
She hag: lost nothing of her 
antive. generesity, of her’ ok] faith’ jn: 
ideals,..of her disinterested: love -of-hu- 
manity, “But, lef it be ‘allowed that she 
had kept her intelligence and her clear. 
She is not’ unaware that 
in the complexity of modern life no 
nation can‘be’ completely, ixclated from: the 
others; and that there are between peoples 
innumerable causes of economic _inter- 
depsidence, and that no part: of the 
European body ‘could become rotten with- 
out... The best running risks of corruption, 
T ndd, finally, that France has no desire 
to see Germany collapse, first, because 

creditor does not-desire the discorature 
ven when that debtcr is. 
like Germany,.in a position to recover 
rapidly--and also because it'is not = 


to, throw oneself’ violently on & beaten 


a END OF CONCESSIONS. , - 

Why then ‘have wevsaid that. we have 
reached the end cf concessions? It 1s be. 
cause, up to now, it is we who have paid 7 
for them, .The Treaty has promised us 
the reparation of our damages and the 
guarantea pf oir security. But as ‘re. 


“| pards. security we were given a right of 


temporary occupation of the Rhine, which, 
was to cease precisely at the moment when 


Germany would have become strong again. |: 


To makeup for the precariouyness of this 


first meana of security, we were promised 


a ‘pact’ cf help, which) had no militaiy, 
value, but which might. have the’ virtue 
of) a moral and political warning. - 
promise. wag not :kept, and nothing has ; 
been ‘offered in place of it, For the fresh 
guarantee pact proposed by Mr. Lloyd 
George fora period shorter than that of 
the period of. occupation, without any; 
precise obligation of military help, was} 
nathing; it was nothing more than a dan- 
gervug “and, specious’ offer’ deceiving the 


As regards our reparations, we have 
been treate! td better, © On the Commis 
sion ‘constituted under the Treaty’ of 
Versailles ‘we wera in a” minority, 
although :our interests were the majority’ 


‘lof those. concerned,’ The .attempt has 


nevertheless been’ made during’ the’. last 
four ‘Vears'to deprive the Commixsion: of 
its powers and to" replace it by inter- 
national financial committer, “that is to 
say, to try to form against. us a eontition 
of the ‘interests apposed to “curs. © The 
Treaty established in adVancé the. condi- 
Commission ‘ would 


A. pretence was made of respecting thexe 
conditicns, but tha debt wag scnreely fixed 
thefore “there wnsimposed “upoh us, by 
one of those Supreme Councils ‘in whieh 
rof our-right, a 


tion: Commission reluctantly adopted iinnd 


“| which reduced ‘town extent’ nat ‘clearly. 
‘| defined ‘the total: cf our ‘claims. 


d ¢ We then 
relied, firmly upop. this Scheduly cf Pas-. 


we 


f 


TUESDAY , ‘SEPTEMBER. Ate, - 1993. 


she has dono everything 3 e could to in 
ereuse; she felt that she was encouraged in 
the’ attitude she had taken up;-and the 


open to us than te resort th coercion and, 

to take pledges. ° , ees OS, Tete 
: RUHR KeSsesTaNe, 

It is not our fault that ‘these necessary 


measures were not applied in commen by |. 


| THE HON 


all the Allies. Uf they had been so applied 
there is every probability that Germany 
would have given way: at once. We had to 
net alone, with the positive. help of Bel- 


fede aud the partial collaboration of Ltaly. |’ 


nstend of lending herself willingly -to..the 
exploitation of the. pledges: Germany “ors 
ganized revistance, and forced :us' to accen, 
Tuate our presarc. “Are we thea respon: 
ible for.she.trouble which followed 7: Ls it) 


vot.'those who violate treaties rather thin |- 


those who, ask “for the obsorvancé of them 
that one onght to tall to account for events | 


| rendered inevitable, by the injuries dane ta 


justice? = ¢ ee 
What would baye. happened, moreover, 
if we had remained with our arms folded? 
Dees qnyene imagine that our weakness 
ial have achieved the miracle of bring- 
dorm %6 the German, Government and 
ing ib to put its finaitces in order and. 
abilize. its currency and thus to get rid 
fa couse of econoniie decomposition in thé 
centre of Europe! r t 
Allies pursued ‘that dream ‘and during 
three ‘years the evil grew worse, TF we 
were Hot in, the Ruhr Germany would have 
‘gntioned & slide down toward» the abyss 
oe had ‘dug for’ herself, ‘but, we 


whic % =) 
should have our hands empty, wherend to: |! 


day wo hold pledges. and we are {it a pasi- 
tion to refuse'to let them go. Our resolve 
his been dicated to us by the vital’ interests, 
“of France; it cannot therefore be any an 
npyance to AllieS who also wish France to 
live’-ind) whose own ‘interests, mercover,’ 


when considered from-a higher, point af f 
wiew, are indistinguishable from ours. 


THE ENTENTE” * 
1 think I cag’ flatter myself that. L have 
nlways been a faithful partisan . of” the 
Franco-British Alfiance, Before the war, 
at a time when there Was in France a cer- 
‘thin mimber of men who«supperted more 
or less openly: aw policy oF rapprochement 
with Germany—nt the risk of beading us 
to an official consecration: ‘of the Treaty, 
of Fratkfurt and the fina] sbandyument 
of «Alsace. aud Lorratne—I was, alw 
among those who, took. the opposite vie 
and adviyed. the ‘close union of the two 
great free nitions of Western Europe. It 
Awaeat my request that.in, 1912,.in a Cab- 


inet over which | presided. tho letters be} 


tween M, PaulsCambon and Sir Edward 
trey were exchanged which, mado the Em 
tente closer and prepared the way for. the 
Alliance, and, in | the visits which I  ex- 
changed with King George V. in 1913:and 


1914, L.set: myself to. the realization of the | 


sume object, to which I was passionately 
devoted, : ‘ : 
Nobody, therefore, would be more grieveil 
than myself ig oven o light shadow should 
momentarily obscure a friendship. which. 1 
am confident of haviug dove practical work 
to bring about, * But. have always 
thought of that friendship om leaving to 
the two peuples their indepdhdence of op- 
nion and their freedom ‘of. speech, ag be- 
ing intended ;ta reconcile their interests 
ae not Ve Tea! Hawa to one an. 
other, and as finding its bext suppirt ina 
contant effort towards yerlpeocal under- 
standing and a mutual respect for equality. 
T cannot believe that in taking this view— 


to use the exprexsion. of a verydistinguivh- |. 


ed ‘English publicist I am showing a tov 
rigid honesty. Honesty has: no_need.-for 
epithets ; it ix sufficient by itself, We known 
that our Allies are ‘4s honest a5 we are, 
and“thnt is why- we -feel ‘certain that on 
reflection and in. face of the evidence of. 


“| facts they will end hy agreeing: that we 


are right.”.Moreover, to-sce that treaties, 
are executed,-that sworn ‘faith i» respect 
ed,'is not simply a matter of honesty; it is 
a matter:of. wisdom and “prudence, 

* Qn the morfow of a universal war which 
has had its reaetiods it every part of. the 
world, which haw stirred Europe" to” its 


depths;athich bas created new. States, .ex- 


panded gr diminished old : States; and | 


awakened everywhere the spirit of nation, 
ality, and which was ended: by the painful 
luboration of a neries of treaties signed at 
Versailles, at Trianon; at Neuilly, atd at 
St. Germain—if. one. were to damage one 
‘of these diplomatic agts oe would damage: 
all the others.*"“Fayours’grunted to the 


“mort powerful ofthe: conquered - nations 
} would invitably be claimed by the’ weaker |. 


nations. ‘Through ‘the breach thus opened 
‘would quickly. pasother” propeials which 
would bring. tute question again. the whole 
petice -wattlement, would destroy the new 
arrangements male for Central: Eurdpe, 


and would menace our friends of Czechu- 


Slovakia, . Rumania, and -Yugo-Slavia, 
. Far from _facilitatiug. Continental recon- 
struction, the forgetting’ of engagements 
‘which have been entered into would entail 
aafter, a little while disorder and chaos... 
France, in defending her rights, defends 
those of her: Allies: In maintaining the’ 
conditions of the. peace “she “maintains 
peace: itself and: works for: humanity, -‘ 


ments ‘ag an international.’convention, ‘as : 


an. .bontourab 


1 engagemeyt. entered “into. 
with as. Ow 


few months. passed ‘before 


‘the. yalueson .whi¢h all” the -Allies fhad. 


agteed ‘were. agnin called: In question 8 
ertuin Of our friends seeind no. longer te 


‘showr ar 3 
years thatshe has been allowed 
1 her obligations, nod that we 


“apoy't “a'Gaod’Smekesmy * : 
| Slippers :and (Armchair: | 


dn-|* When ‘fas doubs -about your eyes 


oF your glasses” 


During three vears the |. 


Moment cane when wo had no. other way | 


a 


“SM. 


‘LARGE C4R 6 PASSENGE 


To ke Effective On and After the ~ ; 


og) Isr SEPTEMBER. Nests > 


- Waltiag: 


ED RATES 


AR 


ee 


Se a 


‘Time’ will be’ Charged: at “Hall 


HIRE. 
GKONG HOTEL GARAGE 
have pleasure in ‘announcing thatthey = 


are enabled to reduce he. Rates for 
“Gar Hire to ae. a 


ALL CAR 4 PASSENGER - 
$4.00. Pex;Hour. 9 


Bo 


Rates. - 


FOR HONGKONG, PHONE; €32. «, 
.: FOR” KOWLOON, PHONE: R374: 


"~- PHE HONGKONG: HOTEL CO. LTD. 


gel 


MONDAY, 3rd, & TUESDAY 


‘ 


at B15. and. 9.15 a 


RICHARD” HARDING. DAVIS 


, 4th September, 


"America’s Master Story Teller. 


ei 


ee a 
- LANE, CRAWFORD’: - 


RUBSO-ASIATIO, BANK. 


Carizan(Foutt-ram) 


Reserve FuxsD ~~. | 
CartraL Costerotx> 


Lf’ HERBER 


“USUAL: PRICES. 


we 


PEATURIN G 


ARNOTT’S FAMOUS - 


. Boublea as of a ; 
° AMERICAN. 


bY ThE 


EXPRESS ' CO... 


T RAWLINSON 


t oe " af ot i 
, BOOKING AT THE THEATRE, 


“ples 


— 


_ INCORPORATED. «. 


HEAD: OYFICES * i 
Paria 9, Rue Boudresn,: 
Qo OFFICE 


Tan! 
Oia Broad 


Street, BO. 2. 


ee 


ae BANKERS : ‘ 
Lonpon: Meesrx, Glyz, Mills, Currie & Oo. 
‘Societe. - Generale: pour © Farorisor 


Devel 


ment du Ccmaserce #t de Findus 


‘THE SCARLET OAR 


’ From the Gripping Novel by as 


SPECI KY 


oon BEARINGS 
"ON ALL MACHINES You ORDER ; 


| Wo can supply Beariage for all kinds of ‘Machined SS 
j POWER SAVING. NO HOT BEARINGS. . 
SELF PLIGNING 2: REQUIRE LESS “ATTENTION, 


“THE DNITED ASBESTOS'-ORIENTAL AGENCY, . 1m. 


ge 7S SOLE AGENTS FOR. HONGKONG. 


‘el. Central 236. Addrets: 2, Queen's Buildings, 


CELEBRITY RECUEDS BY ARTISTS WHO ARE MAKING’ MUSICAL 
HISTORY AND WHO STAND AT THE VERY PINNACLE ‘IN 
TRE OPERATIC AND -CONCERT FIELDS ARE THE 
» , DOMINATING FEATURE OF THE SHIPMENT re 
, JUST RECEIVED BY U8, THE: BEST a 

; EVER BECEIVED IN THE COLONY. 


“ VOCAL. 


'. @RAND OPERAS. 


at I PAGLIACCI (Leoncarallo) Prologue oe. wee 0) oe Riveardo Stracciari, Baritone. 
F De." "do: Vesti laginbba —.. |: Nino: Piocalnga; Tenor. 
. feat ' (On with the Play) 
Do. do, O. Colomtina we Gale Zrastelo, bas 

, vats (Harlequin’s Serenade) ve ; 
; ‘BARBER OF SEVILLE. arn Numero Quindici?. . 

4 (Namber Fifteen)...A. Bonci (Tenor). sud Retraceis| 
ie pias cca 


. Voi dovrenti travestirvi 
(You must disguiky yourvel!) 


“TANNHAU SER ee Oh! tu bell ‘astro... «Pasquale Amato, Baritone, 
(The Evening Stsr) 


ae) VESPRI SIQILIANI Aria de Montforti os 
(Sfontford's Aria) . 


| "LUCIA, DE ‘LAMMERMOOR (Donizetti, Tn cheva 
. . Dio, xpieganti Pali. ...Alfred Piccaver,. ‘Tenor, , 
(Thon hast spread thy wings)” 
‘EP TOSCA E luceviin le stelle (The stars were shining) . Nino Piccaluga, Yeuor, 
if MIEFISTOFELE (Boito).Son lo spirito .. om _+»Adamo Didar, Bans. 
RICOLETTO (Verdi) La donnse mobile... a. nO Laori- Volpi, Tenor. 


Ae - ... “ OKEH STUDIO, 
8, Drs. Vaor Road Cxntrat (Conmze or Ick Hovsx Brazet). 
Tx. No. Creat 4453, 


_,asRiceardo Stracciari, Baritone,” 


a ii 


NOTICE. 


“Mssns, “INDLATER, _MACKIE, 
- TODD & - CO, LTD, 
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS; 

“ LONDON. 


‘| made" some ptogress 


"| of inflation. 


fas other services introduced 


BRITAIN'S ‘ACHIEVEMENT IN 


DEBT. REDUCTION. 


REVIEW. 


PRIME MINISTER'S 


Stanley Baldwin, who 


aoe 


The Right ‘Hon. 


| for the time being fills the office of Chan- 


cellor of the Exchequer as well as that 
‘of Prime Minister, was the principal 
guest of the Lord Mayor, the Right Hon. 


i Edward Cecil. Moore, at the: annual ban- 
“T quet given to the bankers and merchants 


of the City vf London, at ‘the Mangien 
House, on July ith. : : Lote 


The Lord. Mayor proposed ** Prosperity 
to the Public Purse ‘and the health of the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer.” The. past 
year, ‘like the one before it, he said, had 
not heen without its anxieties, both for 
the Government and for the great: hanks 
and other financial houses, “° Trade had 
towards ‘recovery; 
taxation had been slightly reduced, while 
at the same time our financial obligations 
abroad had been duly met. (Henr, hear.) 
The. burden of, taxation had been heavy, 
but without it we could not have met ‘our 
obligations in the way-‘we had dove, and 
thus havv retained our position ns the 
financial centre of the world. With the 


“\ finances of some of the European ‘coun- 


tries in their present condition, it would 
be unreasonable to’ expect international 
trade to expand on a large scule. This 
formed a useful object-lesson yin the evils 
Nearly’ all their City friends 
would agree that deflation, slow, but sure, 


{was the wiser course for.Great Britain 


to pursue. (Cheors.) Bankers aud iner- 
chants were confronted’ with the devyelop- 
ment of the problem of continuing with 
the large European populations the inter- 
change of commodities due to the un-- 
stable means of payments’ at present 
existing in those, ancient countries. It 
might be that by the rearrangement of 
populations and interchange within our 
own undeveloped Empire, we might find 
an equivalent more speedily and on a 
sounder basis than'by nwriting the re- 
naissance of.continental Europe. . (Hear; 


{ hear.) The integrity and solidarity of the 


pound sterling, which had “always , been 
the envy of the world, must he “nain- 
tained at all costs. Although under the 
stress of the war our pound sterling be- 
came “depreciated in relation to many 
other foreign currencies, we had only to 
Yook: down the ‘list of foreign exchanges 


to-day to see’ the rapid’ strides wo had | 


‘made towards recovery. This could: not 
have becn done, without considerable 
eacrifice on tho “part of eur people. “The 
one great hindrance to any substantial 
recovery in-the European situation was 
no doubt the burning question of repara- 
tions. They all hoped and trusted that 
before long some-way would be found to 
overvome present difficulties. (Cheers. 


“A BALANCED BUDGET... 


The Prime Minister, responding, said >! 
Those in charge of the public purse bave, 
since the first year of peace, reduced the 
pexpenditure of the country from over 
*22,0439,000,009 a year to but little over 
$409,000,000. (Cheers.) “The staff in the 
Government offices has heen reduced to 
such an extent that to-day it is only 10- 
per,.cent, grenter in numbers than’ it- was 
hefore the war, and with" that we have 


“| to: remember’ that. we have avast army 


devoted to’ the service. of those who carn- 
ed their pensions from the war, as. well 
ring the 
war and ‘maintained. of necessity bince. 
And finding that ‘nearly half our income 


‘| goes to the payment: of interest. on debt, 


we have in three years out,.of income 
reduced’ ’~ our debt to . £150,000,000. 
(Cheers.)| -And -since the Armistice we 


,| have neatly halved the Aoating debt from 


£1,500,000,000 to- £800,000, We have 
paid off all our: foreign debt . except 
the "“Aimerican—£20,000,000 to Japan, 
£95 5,000,000 to South America, as much 


‘|| agai in market loans to Canada-—debt | 


The Agency foe ins Old Established, and Well Rares 
Firm | has been transferred feos CARTERS, 
o BACKHOUBE, ‘LTD, 


to AME ES 


No. : a CuaTeR Roan. 


‘RADIO- PARTS a 
Just. Arrived se ae S| 


"1, Des Vorax’ Road, ° 
eae Pottinger Street. 


| don“under™ 


; :Austrian fin 


Jot’ the dificul 
| moment: Wo,all know there is to greater, 


‘i ultimately 


all over the world, the most difficult and 
dangerous debt—external debt. We have 
halanced ou? Budget and we have estab- 
lished in these yeurs a (statutory sinking” 
fund. (Cheers.) 

As the Lord Mayor has‘ " snid, ‘these 
|. things have’ only been accomplished. at a. 
price. But at that price we have main 
tnined unimpaired the credit of this City 
and ‘of our .country. (Cheers.) That 
credit is the life-blood of commerce, ou 
which our liyes and the feeding of our, 
‘peoples depetids. -But more than that is 
-wantiog. Credit.alone cannot restore thé 
trule of the world, cannot along give us 
that export trade we need.. For all trade, 
and for export.trade, no Jess than for the 
home ‘trade,-whatever financial devices 


may be arranged and secured, all trade |, 


comea down in the .end to there being 
someone in some country in the world 
who will buy wha t wo. muke, and, having’ 
_| bauahe, ity can pay for it. 
»| what we ure suffering from is the devasta- 
tien that. was caused by: the war,.-and 


‘the 


(Cheers) - And}, 


|. SEPTEMBER . 47a, 


 Butoscttlement or not, 

suardians “of the. public purso, ti 
atraight before us; and straight it ‘mist: 
‘Tie for-our successors. There is only one. 
road’ te “tread, othe road .of economy, ‘of 
debt redemption, of sound, prudent, and 
careful finance—{hear, hear}--remember- 
ing that above and heyond all. things for 
this country, industrially, vommercially, 
and financially, fies the maintenance of 
that’ credit of ours—(hear, hear}—which 


séartied us through the French wars. af: 


hindred years. ago, which enrried is 


through the war from which we have just | 


emerged, which is carrying us-to-day, and 


-f which will and which -must always carry | 
us, do long-as we may hope to’ keep our 


pluce in the front, of the nations of the 
world, industrially, commer: Hy, 
financially, (Cheers.) - 
“FINANCIAL HUB OF. THE UNIVERSE.” 
Alderman Lord! Bearsted gave the'toast 
“ Our Merchants and Bankers.” He snid 
that in spite of the trials it had gone 
through, England wis, in a financial. 
sense, still the hub of the.universe, 
“Mr, Montagu ©. Norman, Governor of 
Bank, of England, responding, snid 
the Inst year had been one of disapp 
ment. Bankers felt that they were ‘suf- 
fering from ills which were not of their 
own making, and which were not in fact 
home-made.” The confusion in which ‘wo 
lived was due, he suspected,’ to the clash 


of internationalism against nationalism. |' 


Internationalism was part of the tradi- 
tion of all the trading nations, but fow 
understood the nationalistic spirit as it 
existed to-day in various parts of the 
world. We saw around us in Europe, and 
even farther afield, nations which sought 
to impose upon us a state of things ‘of 
which we had never dreamed hefore— 
peoples who wished to live themselves in 


economic health, but their neighbour to [' 


be as it were an economic corpse. The 
historian would. probably say that that 
wns tho trouble from which we were suf- 


fering now. Until this upheaval was at} 


an‘end we should nat see the state of 
affairs’ which was essential for tho econ- 
omic sanity and the trade of: the world, 
He believed this thing was‘working. aut, 
Meanwhile we needed patience. Ho was 
not despondent, though the pence*had not 
come so quickly ns we hoped. There was 
one thought, one. prayer, for to-day— 
“Give peace in our time. O Lord, for 
without it we perish.’ (Cheers.) 


ONE: Pas. NoBR ‘AXICABS. 
a A PARIS EXPERIMENT, 


The Puris . Municipal - Counei] “has 
authorized cyclecar taxicabs, designed: to 
carry one passenger, to ply for hire, and 
it iy expocted t at the first of the new 
vehicles. will bo on the strezts. at the end: of 
this weeks Twenty-five cabs-of this type 
will be added ¢ach’ month‘ witi] the: pro 
posed total of 250 ix reached, 

These’. light | vehicles will 
Kines of ‘from four to five horse. 
ask They: will have — removable 

js ‘and “the passenger will sit, be 
side the driver. The “fare, which 
will work out at ahong*half that’ of ‘the 
ordinary taxicab, will be 60 .centimes (om 
‘inally 6d.) for the first’ 650 yards. ance 10 
centines (nominally td.) for every addi- 
tional 200 yards, and :the charge for waite 
ing ‘time will be Gf- an hour, 

ae ony will-the new rxicab be cheap- 

“but if ix hoped that the consequent 
competition will ‘hb 
rate of fares generally. It is held that the 
chances of success are better than in the 
cass of the taxi sidetcars tried not long 


haye en- 


ago, which . failed to bring-in a sufficient’ 


return: and which were alno leas comfort- 
able for the paxsenger.—Times,. 


HONGKONG SHARE ‘MARKET 
CLOSING "QUOTATIONS © 


Rare wnen, 3rd 1993. 

Hongkong and Shanghai ans 

. Bay 181,090 ma 

. Union {nstrances... 
Steavhoats ...ssc008 
China Sugars 
Langkats (Combined) 
Whampos Docks. ..: 

” Hongkong Hotels 
Ewo Cotton Mills os Ths. 12.40 b. 

. af 2b, 2310 au, 
1226, .80/25.30 sae 


8 22. & ma! 


° Hongkony Electrics 
_ Hongkong Trams © .....s000..8 ‘22. 30 b. 
8. bunts: ay Fe materi . 1a.—ialer, : 


that, for one reason und another, none |-" 


of the belligerent-countries has héen ‘able 
yet‘to’ tread in that same stern path of 


in for the last five y 
Ww with -success—a 
Ruccess Owing largely ‘to the City‘of Lon. 
leadership of the Governor 

enr, hear)—we have, sue- 


shown; the same path 


‘The: followed ‘where there inva will; 


You, my Lord. ‘Mayor,’ spoke. abou: som 
hat face- us. -at- the 


difficulty : ‘than’ the equitable, ‘settlement. 
of reparations, the’ want. of which ‘aettle- 


rigid economy and self-denial. and taxa- 
tion'‘of the peaple that ‘we have’ trodden |: 
“(Hear, hear.) :)-4b 


in “Weginning. the’ restoration,.of |? 
ince, and. surely, where’ the 


ment must be more and.more felt. in, the,| 


international trade. of the~ world. : “We 
‘have just made an offer to our Allies pro-, 
posing the: first’ steps towards ‘n- settle- 
ment, conceived ‘in such -o. spirit that I, 
{might fairl 
end.onr efforts,’ (Cheers. ) 

clieve that on my: part 1 shall Jeave 
nothing undone to ing. about A tettle- 


‘fment.ehould it ho within my Jpower, ‘and, 


if, our-efforts should Prove ‘alter: all un- 
succersful thers. i nein this: room 
; profoundly. than 


hope that ‘success might |<. 


Pion ee SMALL CARS ~.. 
LARGE CARS 
YANG TO 


$237) b., 23194, . 


1933: 


‘ “Do. you, teko a.Bride ies your. Table Linen? 6 


“Hes your Cloth, Eing Sproads, Contes’ Pieces Bot ttiat Snows Whit 
-Nese-and Fino « . : 
Gloss “thar” 

‘makes Vother | 
Woms} Proud. - 
of their Table 
Linen P 


Sanitary Laundry op 
Service, 


Dyeing ‘and * Dry-\- 
. aleaning of all. 
Descriptions . 


e “STEAM: LAUNDRY CO, 


HONGKONG DEPOT: 16, Stanley Street, Tel. C1279. . 


. », 63, Praya Hast. « “Write ng Theae 
ow LOON DEPOT, 19, Canton Road. . . a 
CANTON: 19, Sharki Cantral East, PRICE LIST. 


“PIANOS FOR "SALE oR HIRE. © 


TSANG FOOK P ‘PIANO. CO. 


“Ten. 2127." i oA, Waxenar Roan. 


_ SOMB. ‘DISTANCES IN THE SOUTH" CHINA SEA : 
: AND’ PHILIPPINE ISLANDS | 
- BY Cart. G. es 


ce 


da Sale at— : 
BREWER & Con “Pedder Street, a i 
YE OLDE PRINTERIE, Lrp, Quieen’s Rosa. 


4 
ue 


- OUR RATES OF HIRE: 


ARE. AS FOLLOWS: 


Oren 


sh 00 per hour 
3 00 per hoor 


we Mer 


“Hall Rates 


‘and “MANUF ACTUAEES of, Oxséen; ceeieke tte 


“Boller Repaiis 6 8 epecalty. 


THE. CHINA-ASSQOIATION. have “explained. that 8 very bir, from ot itself would be _ step which, ik have ae 


“ASD 00m LED. 


~ SHIPBUILDERS AND .ENGINEERS . 


London, Southampton ena Basingstoket 


’ & 


I paggENG@EE. AND CARGO VESSELS OF ALL TYPES UP TO 6,000 TONS 
- QOOEAN-GOING TUGS, MOTOR BOATS (SEA OR RIVER) « 
Pao kos UP 80 50 ENOTES. raat 
"fl qURBINES AND RECIPROCATING MACHINERY AND PEOPELLER?. |. 
|. ‘MARINE AND STATIONARY OIL ENGINES |. 
eo 3 TO 90 BEB SE 
‘ "+ "MOTOR VEHICLES 2 T0 6-TONS. .. = 
("| #" WATER-TUBE BOILERS. | : 
a! Poa, Quorazion, Appty— Bee 
” ROBERTS DOLLAR BUILDING, “.’ 
... BBANGHAL 900%. 


wow 


GIVING UP AGENCY, 


they go 


. - | rE WHOLE OF OUR STOCK OF. 
~ | HANAN: BOOTS and: SHOES | 
Mae $13.50 per pair ' : : 


- (Levys than prenent cont price) Aes os eh 


, Black, Tan, White, Patent Lenther ard Pumps. 


. [MACKINTOSH 
>. ra ee vers & CO,.-LTD., ; on . : 
*. Men's Wear Specialists: ee 
Alexandra, Building. _.. Des Vooux Road. » 


wae 


r 


? McGregor, Re H. "Hill, H. 5. Moss, C. i. : er hi 
“I rivals, and‘ will establish at Peking: a 


j | Hunter, H. D. 


|THE CHINA DISPENSARY| 
|): onpmsrs. peuscisTs 


‘BERFUMERY, TOILET ARTICLES, PATENT MEDICINES 
“ PRUGGISTS: SUNDRIES, Exc. 


: ; ; 
We, ask you to compare Ya‘ues. * 


82, QUE 


¢ “PHONE 2598. *, 


cay 


EN’S ROAD CG. 


_ YEE SANG FAT CO. 
, JUST RECEIVED . 
ae Seas a JA Large ‘Assortment.of eee Seca 
WARDROBE sxd, CABIN TRUNKS: . aie 
SULT CASES ond TRAVELLING ‘RUGS © 
-« < All-at Reasonable: Prices, . —. ; 4 


UT Palit stipieg 9S 
WATER PROOF ~ RAINCOATS © 
pene: Ee ‘Gents “Ladies ‘and ‘Children: | 


> 


a ee 


$60- uP. pe. 
Pieces 


50° . : : © 


opportan l1y seldom offered.: 


“ion B12 
ie 


Power would: individually’ 


“A. DIFFICULT YEAR. 

The . annual meetin, -of “the China 
Association’ was heldt-in the: offices of the 
P. &.0. Steam Navigation Co., Ltd., 2, 
Leadenhall Street, Loudon, E.C.,.on July 
Posth: “Mr David’ Lindale, Chairman of 
the Association, presided, and amongst 


| those present avere ss Re Hon. Sir JN. 


<2 P.C GCILG, ete, Lieut- 


Gorda! 
Sir George Macdenogh, K.C.B.. 


General 


I}ELC.MLG., Mr. Gershom Stewart, MLB. 


Messrs, R. Chatterton Wileox. Fdmund H. 
Grimani, Thos. Brown, D, 0. Rutherford, 
J.cR. Michacl, S. H. .Michael, Byron 


| Brenan). GM.G.. Cs G. Mackie, G.W., 


Sheppard, Chas, Beswick, A. W." Burkill, 


i ‘TTacN. Leefe, F. Salinger, A. ML. Townsend, 
| FB. Anderson, ASP. Woed; H.-W. Looker, 


J. A. Jupp, FL Oswald Reynolds, Cameron 


Bates, Edgar J., Houle, W. Carter, W 
B. “Buyers, °C. - Mackintosh, ‘ES 
C. Jones, W. EF. Leveson, 
bO. Js Cousins, Geo, B, Dodwell, H: ALS, 
Macray, C,H. ..Pearson,.F. J. Abbot, H. 
Whistler, Horace GQ. Harwood,:W. F. 
Turner, F. W..Daldy, A. P. Simpson, H. 
S. Hnnedck, Stanley H. Bywater, H. H. 
Joxeph,.E. R. Morriss, Wm. Theodors, 
E. BE, Seymeur, H. J. Stockton, FP. G. 


LSale, Alex. Cumniing, I.” Dudeney, .R. 


Mayne, “W... Fisher. 
J sveretary, U 7 . ee 
Y Secretary (Mr. HE: C. Wilcux) hav- 
ring read, the’ notice convening. the meet- 
ing, ‘ z 

The CuamwaN said:—The report. and 
accounts: have -been tin your ha ys for, 
some days, tnd With’ your" pormission T 
will take them as read.. The, committee 
again found difficulty. in issuing the re- 
port’ at an enrlier date: while so muc 
correspondence. was taking place, with, 
€himt regarding the unfortunate disturb: 
ances in that country, When we met-Jast 
year I wag able, to ‘congratulate the 
Chinese onthe results of the Washington 
Conference ‘which. gave jthem every op- 


und H..C.' Wileox,. 


portunity-of-setting’ their-house. in order) 


without _ interference _ from outside, I 


am afraid this year 1. cannot congrata. ; 
late anroue upon-.the progress .that’ has | 


‘| been made. 


Rival: Tuchons, in many pro. 
vince, are’ vither” fighting with .their 
Aecighbours or sitting armed ‘to the teeth 
‘watching each other,” The Central” Gov- 
érnment “has practically. cenged- to exist. 


Allover the country armed robberies are! 


on the inereage, and the trade routes, are 


_ [infested with brignnds, and the move.) 
both foreign and native, is} 
‘The attack on, the! 


ment of goods, 
mucli interfered with, *T 
mail train from Tientsin’ to Pukow, at 


Lincheng ig- well known to you all, aud! 


it ig to be hoped. that the negotiations at 
present going on will result-:in a mue! 
improved railway police force, which wilt 
rendér. such 
future. Our memberg in China are very 
anxious regarding the, present position of 
affairs, and have ” expressed themselves 
very strangly'in their recent telegrams, all 
of. which have been communicated to the 
Foreign Office. . They consider that: the 
situation requires the presence of fore’ gn 


‘ltroops at some of, the Trenty Ports to 


ingure the safety of these ports und ag a 
precautionary step in order to. guard 
against the necessity, of operations upon, 
a ‘largey,.stale in, the. event. cf more 
serious outrages than that at Linchenz. 

J think: you! must all. rentive that a 
military expedition, of this. kind. in, ‘the 


| present state’ of _Eprope ig well nighs that.we are 
impossible, and .would be most nop, 


pular 
in this country. On the other hand, Ido 
not for a moment’ think that the people 
of this. country, when they: understand 
the position, would be indifferent to inter: 
ference with the British communities in 
China, -nnd that our memberg there’ 
rely upon protection in.‘time of need, 
THE FOUR POWER TREATY. | 


Owing w the Four Power Treaty signed 
at the Wpsnington Conference the Powers 
were to net in concert in treatin: 
Chion,. and it wax ‘understood. “tat—no 
‘intervene in 
the’ affaira of ‘that..cquatry. ‘It inte be 
hoped that the signatories -to the Washing- 
ton. Treaties are now. considering, what 
atops they should tuke to remedy.the pre- 
arnt position of affairs. It would he a pity 
if these. treaties, which “were entered.into 


with .the intention of securing .the peace 


of the Pacific, were ‘to result, as {ar as 
China-in:concerned,: in merely “halding the 
bring for the rival: Military Governors of 
ithat country’ to fight to their hearts’. con- 
tent and in exposing tle Chinese paople 
‘and the citizens of th ‘ 
resident in that country to“great ‘danger 
inconyenience’ and .loss.. Before’ the days 
‘of the Washington Treaty it would have 
‘been péssible for a friendly Power,to have 
individually. offered Chinn advice and aa 


eh being’ the eases: T believe we have dque 


Rt 


H., and go, with authority limited tothe wall 


‘outrages less likely in tho and, fi 


1 fixed deposit. 


ith | 


@ signatory Powers: 


benbijcial nud’ far-retiching testilts; it is 
more’ than’ probable . that “any | helpful 


everything’ that.is possible, ‘The difficulty { m1 
'] action af ‘the suggested Confsirenen wold 


rather-tieg in their failure in.China to ap- 
[precinte that England aid Europe, end, in 
fact, «the. clvilised World; is too. pre 
oceupied with other affiirs-te give to the 
communities in China the attention which 
they believe tov he their duc. - tbe Rae 


of the, great mass of ihe Chinege peapl 
-T caqnot betp feeting that the course which 
China, is pursuing at present is extremely 
daggercus, and will lead cocner or later 
to disaster, and. it iy. with the: object of 


Yitiny yeu know, your committer, your 
trying to guard against. dyugers ahead 


Gavernment and the Press have “given a 
great dealof attention to Chinese con- 
cerns sinen the affair of Lincheng on ‘the 
Tieutsin-Pukow: -Railway, . Among them 
there are, us it appears to me, two schocls | 
ef thought, -In the first place, there are 
j those who consider that China. must, and 
; will, ig eho is given time, work out her 
own. salvation. They, are nut, averse to 
‘ our.coutinuing to ‘held the ring while the 
Tuchuns fight, it ont, They are content, 
to use a common expression, ty “ate China 
Stew in her-own jutes.”” = In-time they be. 
eve that,one-or the other of the military 
‘Tenders will “tenure ascendancy se 


Goyernment tho wisdom of bearmg in 
mind the old proverb about “stitch sin 
time.’’ oa “ aa ; 
“Mrs A. W. Berxint, who had just re- 
tyrned from China, suid, in-concing the 
resolution;, he would’ like ta put before 
them the view of those who had been + 
timately cofinected with Fecent ‘event 
China, Theyiwere filed with many grave 
miggivings as to the many ccrcesstons 
granted the Chinese at Washington: They: 
felt chat past experience did not warrant 
the confidencs placed in her, hut yet 
that the great mass of the Chinese ‘penpli 


1 Government that ean govern. Then-there [world rise to-the cecasiou,, As far-as ber 


js the other, school: which. gees” no: sign of 
lone saeh trend,-- They, see the Tuchuns i 
jileveloning ax independent dictators .in 
their variona strongholds; they s@o succes- 
jxive impotent Central Governments come 


state of China since the Washington Con- 
rnd he thought it’ was: time to take active! 
steps to help. He believed Chinese busi 
nesg men would nat resenf ontside help, 
The resolution, - which .the Chairman 
said would be. ‘sent to the Foreign Odice 
that day, was unanimously carridd, a was 
the adoption of the report and. necoints.; 
: ELECTION OF OFFICERS. 2 | 


cf Peking:,and they bee the. rest of the 
country degencrating' into chavs, Finally, 
they believe thit only by means of foreign 
dsaigtnnes cana settled Government he 
jereated within "n qeneration, - . 

i _ FOREIGN: ASSISTANCE ADVOCATED. * 


dT imust frankly say that T incline to the 
Hatter view. I believe, that an offer’ by 
one, friviully Power. or, if you will, by 
four: co-operating’ friendly Powers, an‘ 
offer: to nediate, to negotiate, to act. as 
it were, ox honest broker,’ is the course 
that ought to be" followed. . L believe that 
'y gesture in this direction would.draw out 
what ix best inthe’ country and lead .on 
tw-the settlement we all: hive at beart. 
! Team yell. aware ‘of the Chinese objection 
[ to” forvign interference in” their internal 
lafinirs and thé jealousy. with .which they 
guard whats called their sovereign rights, 
but there should be wo-intention of usurp- 
ing any power, but merely. of establishing 
such power in properly-organised Chinese 
hands, The great majority of the; peaple; 
of Chinn are strongly opposed to the petty 
I wars that ore continually gcing on at. pre: 
Ment, and are in’despnir atthe state of 
| disorder into which, the country is drift- 
ing. They are in the main a-law-abiding 
peaple, only, desirous of going about their 
Lusiness “peneefally, and would welcome | 
the establishment of gvod government it 
the country. “In China. very little foreign 
‘supervision ow ndvice hay a. great effect, 
ny we know frony experience: 1n- the ense 
of the :Customs, . the, Salt Gahelle,. and 
the ‘railways. Tf the Great Powers spegk 
“to China with one voice’. do, not: think 
their advice Would fall upen deaf ears | 
ing brought about the waditions 


agenda was to elect a+ President for the 
ensuing year, ~ ear ay 

Mr, £, ANperson said‘ he had. great 
pleasure in propownyg the election. of Sir 
{John Jordan. His. name was'a Housohold 
word iu China, and:it was not necessary, 
to endorse the hearty ‘reception hiy name 
had had at their bands, except to say 
that. the Association Nad the “greatest, 
pleasure in doing what it could to confer 
upon ‘Sir John the highest honcur in. its 
power, and was consciots that ‘in accept. 
ing the office Sir John was paying them 
a. great. ‘complinent, The motion way 
seconded by Mr. Byros Brexax and cary; 
ried ‘unanimously. a bd 

Sir Joun Jorvan. said be wished | to 
thank ‘them . very sincerely «for the" lrigh 
honour they. had. done him, but at the 
game time he wisted My. Anderson could 
have been persuaded to contivue in ‘office, 
He thought ther wenld all, agree ‘that 
Mr. Andergon had been ‘the life: and sont 
of the Awociation, and hid -borne the 
heat, and ,burdea.of the day. for: Jong 
tine, The Assccidtion owed him n great) 
debit. Sir John said'he accepted the work 
ag a duty. He felt the momient was..one 
when’ all should .coatribute.. their. shara 
to the .work, for they, were faced, with 
great diffcultics, The relations’ between 
the whole ofthe East and the West. had 
undergone immensy change ‘io the. Iast 


receive. the cordial:sympathy and support]... 


that we destre-to urge upon big Majesty's! 


ference had been, gradually getting worse! 


he Cmatnaan said theshext item on the} 


: .», "MURDERED," . 
oo el . : 
2° SHOT DEAD BY BANDITS: Ex” 
' SZECHUAN, 
Semcon oi 
contains the following | details of the 
tiurder -of two missionarios in Szechuan 
revently’ mentioneds.in” a veable “from. 
‘Shanghai — a te 
Although. the outrage oF 
August 1th, ‘news has only jaat arrived , 
in Shanghai of the murder of the Revs, | 


ghuan bandits, Full particulars ave not 
yet.available, but'a letter tecoived by the ; 
Church’ Missionary' Soviety, “yesterday, | 
frou” Mienchow, stated weet, 
The Rovs. WeoA, Whiteside and F, J. 
eAtho left here a little over a week.. 
Bo. aa holiday -aniong the mountains.’ 
met with bandits. ons Tuesday, August, 


luisinesy men were concerned he did. not! 14th. A: messenger cume in last evening ‘ 
think this confidence was misplaced. The} (Auguat 15th) to tell, us that ‘they had! 


heen shot dead cat close quarteriny fuety 
given-no chanve;whatever,. Weare await 
ing further - news from Mienchphsien 


on 
that city.” i cece 
“the niurdered missionaries were both” 
| married nen with families, “hut their 

‘vives fortunately were at. Mienchow at. 


te he two of the most valuable men in” 
the mission, whose places it will’ be parti-’ 
‘cularly diffcult to HH. They had had so 
much..experience of the‘hatives in the 
interior that they believed themselves to» 
be perfectly safe add often had said s0- 
Mri Whiteside had been in several, awk- 
ward, situations: before, -but always had * 
“managed to get away with his life. though 
once he was slashed across the face with 
a knife and was tindly scarred as the reo: 
gult. . About two-years ago, when Mr..and* - 
Mys.- Whiteside. were coming down, to”; 
Shanghai on their way, Home on furlough. 


‘ 


of. whom put a pistel'to the Iady’s head, ' 
mou, 


they need « aummey- holiday for ‘the’ sake ! 
.of their bealth, to'leaye the missions in 
“the plains and go up into: the Inountains 
for n time, There they establish tempor: 
avy sehools and.spend their time teach- 
ing the peoplé, so that they continue their, ~ 
evangelistic work-and-also. havea healthy, 
change of environment. Ttwis’ préstimed 


weremurdered. ae mae 
‘Mr.. Whiteside.:came ‘to: China: in 1005 - 
nnd: was engnged in evangelistic work. |: 


somewhat of an.exceptional amn, who will 
he greatly amased.. His partionlar work, 


year or two, and’ he thought’ that they, 
Of that Association, should be. prepared 
to study the problem and cndeavour to 
find-w way out.of the immense difficulties. « 


which” prevent advice coming from any 
other quarter, the responsibility resta with 
thom to nét, and ‘nat-+to allow matter, 29 


i o ri ) 0 3 se, 
j continue to drift from, bad css worker, - Moasrs. D. Lundale, D, C. Rutherforl, 
1 0 qease WORK WITH SHANGHAT cHasiier. "TP and RC, Wi'cox were then eletted to the 
! During the year we haye-diccussed with! pesitions - of. Chairman," Vice-Chairman, 
|, the representatives of the British. Cham-| and Hon, Trenourer™ respectively, on the 
ree in’ Shanghai the e oer | metion of Mr. Gro..B. Dopwatt, sicohded 


ber of Commerce so Ang i 
working of thin Aseceiation with the) by Mro A.M. TOwNsexD. 
The Chairman’ thanked them for the 


' Chamber, In many ways their intéresty 
‘are identical; aud To am’ glid to say an} boaour, aud gj he. would. endeavour’ to 
| understanding ha» been arrived at which! do his. best in the ensuing year, 07s. 
\ should take for inutual assistarice inthe | Qn“ the motion, of Mr. Tuos, Brows. 
may say for. this’ committee seconded by Mr. W. F. Turser, theGeneryal 
willing to render’ all the assist- | Conimitice was elected as fellows :—Rt. 
Pance ‘we enn to atiyof the British Cham-]‘Hon. Lord .Ircheape, | P.C.,°-G.C.ALG.F 

vete.; Rt.’ Hon, Sir John Jordan, P.C., 

G.C.MLG., -ete.; Rt. Hon. Sir. Frederick 


hers of Cominerce ‘in China-and to .act as 
their representatives at any time they nny | { 

| Lugard, P.C., O.C.MLG,, .D.8.0.; Sir 
Walter C. Hillier, K.C.ALG.. C.B.: sir 


‘us to ‘do go. From. the accounts you 
K.C.MLG.: ‘Sir - Frederick 


ii notice that the’ expenditure : for the 

ar sinounted to £1,246 14s. 1d., and the? Alfréd | Dent, 
receipts .to “only” £1,083 3+; 6d:,. and we) PRourne, CLG; Mr. ‘Anderson, 'Mr. 
had to withdrawn the gum of £2¢0 frem| Byron Brozan, C/3LG.;..Mr. Geo. 
Larger subscriptigns to‘our] Dodwell, ‘Mr. W. Fisher, « 
Lexpentes are requipe”d, ‘aitd members must | 8, Gundry; C.Be; Mr. J. 0 8.', Has- 
\not therefore be surprised -if if becomes kell, Mr. R. HL - Hili, ‘Mr. H. D, 
} negeastiry to.call upon them fer additional/C, Jones, Mel. H, H. Joepr; Mr. 
| contributions. T now have much pleasure} R. J. Kerr, Mr. David Lundale, Mr, L. N. 
in: proposing the adoption of the report) Lecfe, Mr. H. A.J. Macray, Dr. H, B 
and gccounts, 7 Fy ee] More, LED; Mr. F. J. Norbury, Mr. 

Mr. D. C.- Retuenronp. srecpded the|C, H. Peirxon, “Mr. > H. “W. ° Robertson, 
motion, snying: that the chairman had'so| Mr. ‘D.C. “Rutherford, "Mir, Gervhom 
ably described the nituation in’ China that | Stewart, -M.P.:: Mr: ‘Salinger, ; Mr, 
he would not make, any further remark.” | Charles V. Sale; Mr; HAs Stewart, Mr. 
RYSOLUTION 10 BE } to vorzies orrice, | Av ML Townsend. Mr. A. G. Morey Weale, 

Mr. F. Asvenson then eaid :—We have | Sr, ‘TB. Whitehead, Mr-Rr-Chattertoo 
listeied to the interesting comments of the Wilcox, and Mr. A.G. Weed. 7 7 
Lchairman ,om the political situation in There wis some discussion as to, whe- 
China, and white we may all-agree: with | ther Indies should be: invited .to attend 
whnt-he hug suid we cot understand that | the. anuual dinner, ‘The Chairman. gtated 
ae ivious comment wight be: ° Every. | that w canvaes of members had been made 
one iy aware that things are.in 2 bad way | on the subject, and’ he nsked metibérs who 
iny-Chini, but what steps can you suggest had not done so to gend in. their opinions. 
which ure ptactical and which fire ‘ealeul- It-way decided that the question . should 


{ fature. 


Mr. 'R. 


would cet’ iy ithe . matter’, in’ accordance 
ith the expreasiony of opinion ‘recieved,, 


reasonnb : 
‘Drought the-meeting’ to:.2:c 


the | following”. resolution ¢ 
ing is: of epinion’ (a) that. the hopes 
ntions of -the Governments, sigur: 
‘ y atothy): 
egard:-to|: 


0 are: ‘parties! 


Jed 


They, have 
é.chaosy stag: 
reign, 


hai: Company, 
to carry out. 


lopt the 
 gasentinga resalation 


a 


he loft in the hands of the Committee, wha |. 


wan ‘the teaching of science ‘in Chéngtn'’ "i 
Union College, and he was in the, diffien)t, 
position, of being unnhle to secure vin the’ 
ordinary way the money required for the 
purchase and eartinge.of scientific instru. 5 
ments, - However, being.amost enthusias-. 
tic mun, who never allowed anything to-° 
stand, hetween his work ‘and himself, he 
—and his! wife. tuo—put their bands to: 
anything that happened along. if only: it 
brought them mosey" which» could , {ec - 
‘expendadl ‘upon. aciéntific:instrumonts. 


CONDITIONS: ON THE WEST’ * * 


? RIVER. 7! 


—ee: * 


r eo 


. Mn GoM. Sim (of Mesers. Banker. i), 
Coy Hongkeng wid wuchow) riting.- ta. 
\ the Yiaes at tht end ot July said that 

facest. information ‘serves to fengthen the 
revords of recent outrages in South Chinn, . 


B.) in the vicinity of Hongkong. . For morithy. 


“pase fighting has been ‘in full, swing "be- 
tween the Kwangting . and» Kwangsi 
troops. : The. only; direct ‘communication 
between the two provisions ia. the, West 
(Pearl) “River, at. the mouth: of which.” 


| stands Canton. The Treaty Port ‘snd only 


outlet, for Kwangsi: ig, Wuchow—terminus.- 
of tha West ‘River Lino of, steamers. from 

Hongkong,’ and midway, between « these’. 
there isthe port. of Sambhui, which” is - 


closed 
that for 
the, second: ti 
Co.'s 


1. Prices. , 
ver means thieutting off. catir el 
‘supplies from Hongkong to Kw. 
ite: ‘neighbouring province. ‘and 


| ‘are: far, from se! f-supporting, 
; Hie’ ae 


short“of « miracle 
casual 


Onk Bay links .of © 
Club Mr: FB 


! The Woy Daily News: at’ August.doth, 


the time of, the ‘tragedy. They are. said. * 


hut “again they managed to pacify tha-'" 
If iy siid to hea common practice: 
with missionaries in’ the ‘interior, when . 


‘that. the two were so engage when they", 


Mri) Watt. who came’ out: in 1899, was’, 


TWO MISSIONARIES: ©. 


urred on.” 


KR. A, Whiteside and F, J. Watt by Sze, > 


They, mot: thoir deathy- about 40: from. ' | 


their boat was held up hy. bandits, one . :. 


linked up with ante (probably: * ‘ 
‘prot. 


” 


ee 


THE GOVERNMENT AND | 
" HOUSING.: 


“THE 40-YEAR FREE LEASEHOLDS. 
¥ FORM: REVIEWED. 


‘forme, 


“THE INDENTER 
The indenture embodying the 
terms under which land. may he obtained 
fiom the Hongkong ' Governinéiit under 
“the forty-year leasehold scheine, are’ now 
in’ circulation. “These documents’ being 
-Arafted in the usual legal phraseology are 
‘Difieult tu the lay reader to understand. 
Interviewed ou the matter yesterday, 
‘the Hon. Mr. Fletcher ‘explained that 
«there had heen ‘no alterations. in the 
crcheme as originally outlined iy chim 

» "hefore’ the Leyialative Council: on June 
“4th, Our reprexentative was, however, 
riven information on. one point which, 
“Woes not appear to have heen nine clear 
‘in the past, An impression has prevail- 
ed that uo arrangenicnts were made by 
the Government to eater for~the home- 
builder, that, ‘is to say, the mai desirous 
of building a dwelling for himself to live 
dn during his sbjourn in the Colony. [t 
was thought that directly a house was 
huilt under the scheme and an offer to 
Yeurchase was made, at ® figure pwhich 
“ swould cover, the cost of construction and 
double the’ lipret price. of the site the 
in Jesse would be’ compelled to jput the 
“houne up for ‘auction, | This, according 
to Mr. Fletcher, was an erroneous impres- 
tyion. “He said there was nothing. in the 

:, indenture form binding the lessee to sell. 
=, _ Tf the lessee so Ucsired he cold keep the 
Shouse for the whole of the 40 years con- 

: templated hy the lease and then the pro- 
i: perty,, would automatically, revert to the 
‘Goverment. ‘This meas that those whe 


«desire Yo build homey for themselveg may 
alo so without ‘the fear of heing com- 


PROPOSED NEW LEGISLATION 
“ The “gurrent, isaue’ of the Gaverument 
Gaset contains the‘ (rafts of two new 
, Bil ch “it ‘is proposed: to intraduce 
at Thurlday’s meeting of the Legislative 
Council a 
FRAUDULENT, TRANSFERS OF 

‘ - " BUSINESS, «| 


One Bill is iatituled “Au Ordinance to 
prevent certain fraudulent transfors of 
businesses,"” : : 

The ‘Objects and Reasons ” ytates 

1. This Bill,’ which -is of a: somewhat 
exceptional character, is an attempt to 
combat on form of fraud which ‘has. un- 
fortunately become rather common’ in 
Hongkong recently.: The fraud is this. 
A’ firm gets: into. difficulties, or. it finds 
itself saddled with contracts which have 
become unprofitable owing to the fall in 
the-market' price of the goods contracted 


to be bought; The firm purports to trans. |. 


fey to a new firm the good:will and other 
assets of its business, but not the liahili- 
tic The partners ofthe ‘transferring 
firm then disappear. Sometimes the per- 
son who was looked upon the active 
partner in the old firm re-appear 
manager ofthe new firin, but he denies | 
poy in-the old firm, asserting that 
e wis only an employé. The creditors 
are thus left without any remedy. f 

2 The Bill proposes.to attack this evil 
in the following- way: .[t provides that 
whenever any business is,transferred: the 
transferee shall become and remain liable 
for the liabilities incurred in the business 
by the transforor unless and until nx cer- 
tain notice shall “have heen given. This 
otice is to be by publication in the 


‘from formal business, was. the. question 


Gazette and is not to be deemed to ‘he 
complete until one month» shall have 
elapsed from the date of the publication 
in the Garette-. If proceedings are insti 

tuted against: the :transfereo before the 
expiration of the nionth the notice shall. 
for the purpose of-those procecdings, he ; 
deemed . to: remain incomplete. until the 
proceedings are finally disposed -of, » The 
natice will have to contain the name.and 
address of the transferor, the name and 
nddyess,of, the. transferee, the» address 


pelled to sell theit’ property and: to con- | | 


‘tinne building, The onug.of continuing 
to “build rests only with “those, who sell 
their property: The. general impression 
“was that the lessee was compelled to sell, 
‘ wherens Mr, Fletcher stated in hia speech 
-ut the Lepislative Council on the date 
inentioned and. also in‘an interview grant 
sed to a Daily Lrexq representative’ a few. 
‘days. Jater, that the lessee ‘was. allowed. 
_to sel]. There in-vast difference between 
“the two words, : 
Me Fletcher explained ° that. persons 
: wishing to sell their property (built under 
this scheme) would have to do so, in the 
‘open market ;,that.is to say at a-public 
anetion, where, if he wished, ‘he could 
‘buy in the property on the ordinury 73 
‘years’ renewable. lease. This isa point 
Which has’ not :been fully. rasped'hy the 
public. Most people have. been. under the 
. URpression..that once they have . bought 
. their property in through public auction 
on. the ordiflary.76 years’ renewable lense 
‘their ‘obligation to ‘continue - building 
‘+ venses, : That is not so, and this is clearly 
stated in the indenture form,.page § of 
“which, contain’ -a sentence to the effect 
that he ‘may he required " to enter into 
w fresh agreement with the Government 
‘to carry on building... The Government, 
raid Mr. Fletcher, might waive this con- 
‘dition in exceptional. cases, hut as’a gen- 
‘eral rule they were "determined to hold 
‘these people to their original agreement 
. cif they sold) during the forty-years’ 
Yense they must.continue to huild. | 
-. Agked regarding, payment for the Innd 
"be the lessee, Mr, Fletcher ‘said . there 
uld he no payment until auch time ar 
the, property waa sold, when the Govern- 
ment would share half‘ the proéeeda of 
the salé after the cost of construction of 
‘the house! “been deducted, | On. ‘the 
_. other -hand,-if the lessee held on to the 
. property until the lease expired he would 
then he enlied upon to band over, the 
‘pronerty,.to the. Government on certain 
conditions, This means that the question 
. of payment for the land comes only into 
‘the scheme when sales’ nre effected. 
The Colonial Secretary went on’ta sny 
that-the scheme was mainly one forJarge 
. syndicates who ‘would be encouraged .to 
sell the property and ‘to xo on building 
‘ until ‘such. time as there was’ no longer 
anv housing shortage. The scheme in 
‘this .direction was: inceting with great 
* success ‘and ‘the’ applications, for land 
, wedar the. scheme were unusually. large. 
Regarding restrictions.on these building 
syndicates; Mr, Fletcher: referred our 
Vepresentative to page four of:the inden 
fure form: where, the restrictions were out- 


3. A transfer of the assets. of a2 husi- 
ness without the liabilities: might. of 
course be made perfectly bona fete, and 
the partners of the transferring | firm 
might’ honotrably ‘carry out their obliga- 
tions to. their creditors. Clause 3° will 
offer’ no. real inconvenience in a bona fide 
case -of this kind... If time he not: essen- 
tial the notice of the intended transfer 
tan be given one month before the trans- 
fer takes place, “ahd in that ‘event no 
liahijity under the’ section will-attach to 
the transferee. If nn immediate transfer 
be necessary the transferee, can. retain 
part of the ‘purchase price “or can take 
‘an indemnity from. the transferor, and at 
the end of the statutory period of, one 
month. the linhility of the transferee will 


cease, unless of course proceedings have |” 


been commenced in the meantime. 
Sub-cliuse (4) of clause 3 makes’ the 

Gazette notice © prima facie " ovidence, 
against: tho transferor and transferee, of. 
the statements contained thercin. ‘ 

5. The Bill is.rather in the nature of 
an experiment, hut it is asked for by 
oth Chambers of Commerce. 


INCORPORATION OF TRUSTEES 
7 OF WAR MEMORIAL © ° 

. ‘NURSING JIOME 

The “Objects and Reasons” of this 
Bil] state — # ; ; 
“1, The object of this Bill is to incor- 


porate the Trustecs.of the proposed War | 


Memorial Nursing Hole in order .to,‘cn- 
able them to hold. immovable property, in 
perpetual. succession. The advantages of 
incorporation are obvious, The bill fol- 
lows the genera}. form. of. incorporation 
Ordinances. i } } 


2. The appointment of-trustees, and all 
matters of intemal management, “such as 
the majority required for any decision of, 
the trustees and the muchinery -for the 
alterition of tho ‘constitution, are left to 
he decided in accordance with the con: 
stitution of the Nursing Home for the 
time being. : 

3, ‘There. is one limitation on the power 
of the trustees to alter the constitution: 

. It id that the two trustees of the estate 
‘ofGranville Sharp, deceased, must al- 
ways be two of. the trustees so long. na 
that. estate contributes to the upkeep of. 
the Nursing ‘Home. th ge oe i 


“The lessee ts also compelled to render. 


[ito the Colonial. Treasurer at cach quarter 


“repairs,of| « 


y-ntlowed 


} under the 


of the year.nn account of-his receipts and 
expenditure, . These “quarterly © returns 
havé'to contain particulars of the follow 
ing:— to a en Cont gence 
(1) The: ‘names’ of ‘all’, the’ sub-tenants 
‘eduring the quarter’ to. which the 
nccount or statement relates. ;, 


i en 
ter, including compound interest on 
uins transferred to, sinking fund at 


the rate of 7 per cont. per anniin 


. My, Fletcher’ said the Government were 


concentrating; on “ building’: tenement,|- 


houses on‘a large’ scale at’ Shum Shui Po 
for, the’ Chinese, working. ‘classes, whilst 
at Kowloon.Tong houses for better: class 
‘Chines ‘and Portuguese would:he ‘erected 
e... At present it was not 
contemplated that land which could:be 

Gipht-atder 30° cents per.’ square foot 
would: be_ineluds the schemeé...; This, 


| half past two in the morning, hut: the 


{match to he 


IONGKONG * DAILY .PRERS, 

yo ees CA p g Mos 1 

' HONGKONG: BOOK . CLUB. 
ANNUAL MEETING LIMITS: 
Go 2 MEMBERSHIP. * 


“Atcthe annnal meeting of the Hong: 


kong | Book ‘Club, -beld: yesterday : after: ¢ 


noan, Drs W.W. -Bearse in : the ‘chair; 
‘the only matter under, discussion, apart 
of the limitation of membership. © 7 
The Chairman said that. the’ question 
had “heen brought ‘férward owing to the 
limited space at the servico of the 
club. The, genqral opinion. wan that: if 
unlimited) membership were permitted, 
there*would be-a grave possibility of the 
club | hecoming too. “Inrgn | for the 
present accommodation which had been’ 
so gencrously granted hy the Sanitary 
Bonrd, and they would then be faced with, 
w Tather serious financial ‘problom, inso- 
much that they woukl he compelled td 
remove. to ‘more .commodious  premincs, 
where they would have to pay rent. 2 
Several other members. eridorsed the 
Chairman's remarks, aud. on, the question 
jeing put. to the meeting it, was in- 
animously: resolved that the membership 
be limited to cighty, ee Gpeceeee 
Dr. W,- We) Pearse was unanimonsly 


% as the / Te-elected. Chnirman for, the ensuing year 


and the following officers were appointed : 
Committee ~—Mra, Pate Miss_Fergu-/ 
son and Messrs. C. T. Roe, P. K. Lamble, 
K. W. Lane and F, W. .Shaftain. ot 
Hon, Librarians :~=Dr, |) Woodman, 
Messra, L. ‘Temmern and D. Davies. . | 
‘Mr: Chas. Gerken’ was re-elected Hon. | 
Secretary. : aL 
“ The mecting conchided with a hearty 
vote. of. thanks to ‘the outgoing officials 
for the splendid service they had render? 
ed the club, special.mention being made 
of thé keen“ interest and”. unremitting 
attention to the. club's interests, shown 
hy the Hon, Secretary, Mr. Gerken, 


SERIOUS ACCIDENT. 


EUROPEAN: WARDER FALLS FROM 
SECOND: STORY OF. MESS., 


A’ serious: accident occurred nt ‘the 
prison warder's tess in: Wyndham Street! 
early yesterday morning, when Warder 
Craigic fell from the second floor of the 
huilding into the street below, sustaining 
injurics which ‘it is. feared may prove 
fatal. "The accident. occtirred ut about 


exact cause is at the timé of writing un- 
known... The distance from the floor to 
the ground is about forty fect. 

It is believed Warder Craigie was lean- 
ing over the railings for’ the cool air, and 
that his weight—(he is a heavy man)— 
broke then down?with the result. that he 
fell to the street. ‘When picked up and 
placed in. an. ambulance he" was wearing 
a sleeping suit, which lends colour to this, 
theory of the accident.» Craigie .is a 
Scotchman, and has-been on the Gaol 
atall for four years. He was toghave.gonc 
on.duty at 7.15 a.m, yesterday. He is 
Ouffering from a fractured skull, and 
injuries to the right. thigh. 


a 


INTERPORT. BOWLS. ~ 
HONGKONG “TEAM SELECTED.” 


“At a mecting of the’ Hongkong: Lawn 
Bowls Association, held last evening the’ 
following ‘team was-gelected to represent. 
Hongkong in the forthcoming. interport 
played. at the - Kowloon 
Bowling }Green Club between Hongkong 
and Shanghai on the 15th ioxt.:— 
‘No. L—U. Omar, Craigengower, 
\. 2—Rui Hell) Kowloon Bowling Greer | 
Club. fee : 
3.—D, Gew, Kowloon Docky B.C, 
4.—R. ‘Wallace, Taikoo (No. 2). 
Rex —M. H. Drummond; Taikoo No. 2. 
Referee.—W. Gerrard: (Police R.C.). 
‘Scorer and Official " Measurer.—C. I. 
: , Tacchi. if 8 a 
In a letter received from -the Shanghai 
Lawn Bowls Association by. Mr. Tacchi 
(Secretary ofthe local Association) it wag 
stated that the Shanghai .bowlers will 
eave ‘for ‘Hongkong on .September J0th, 
iy the g.s.°Kipress.of Canada..and the 
provisional, Jist-of the Shanghai team is 
ns follows:— ou. os sagt cu 
J.. Shaw,” H. Beiich, J. Tomlinson, A, 
Cheetham; R. P. Philip and P. Poicnand, 
The letter goeg om’ to state that the te 
will give, the Hongkong ‘nien a very good 
lgame.and .iia. addition’ to bringing down 
with them the interport ‘flag they. bring 
the. Cup-which wag .promise 
rport match by Mr. J, 
team winning the inte’ 


for next. year's competition.” 


The following programme of matches Ne 


for the visitors was arranged at the meet 


of that qnie-4 yy, 


Aiaeln 


- ORILDREN'S” AQUATIC “SPORTS, 


We ore asked. to remind. ticket-holders 
that launches f 
to-morrow: (Wednesday)': for.. these «sports; 
Which will. take .place'st the B.A. 8. M. 
A. Beach, Stonecutters, kiidiy}lent: for ‘th 
occasion bythe B, A: 8. M.A) Club..°~: 
: The : fete is : bei 


worth: 


bs "oe! 
(Continted at ‘foot of 1 


as % 
- 


did not possess the revolvers for his own |, 


{initted to the § 


leave’ Blake Pier, at 3:pim:')'f 


eed 


aDAY,- -SBPL 


MAGISTRATES. | 
lm ge pam THE ay 
«The: edse, in which T Ma Hon, assist: 
ant comprader to Messrs, Dodwell & Co; 
Ltd, was charged With jllegal powession’ 
of arms wag concluded, at ‘the Magistracy | 
yesterday afternoon, The defendant was 
fined 8300, i een tee 
‘Tae young ‘mui's evidence with taken, |" 
‘He reiterated: the story of his comet | 
(Mire FL Cy-denkin) already reported... 
The Captain. Superintendent of Police 
(Mr. Eb. C. Wolfe) told the Magistrate 
Gir. J. Re Wood), that ho had nothing to 
add to what he-had ‘already said. ‘The 
man hnd admitted quite, openly that ‘he 


protection, and it was not disputed that 
i Was an arms dealers, and acted as agent 


forthe supply of ‘arms ‘to Kwangtung. | Jy <." 


But evea'though these. revolvers were only | 
samples, the’ fact. still remained “that he, 

ad no. permit, for them,’ and. his poases- { 
sion.of them, therefore, was quite illegal, 
Neither had he a permit ‘to ‘carry. on 
busiuess.as a-dealer in arms in the Colony; 
and he would point, out to his Worship that 
this latter fact alve: placed’ him without 
the law,"and at the ‘present. ‘time -the 
mmaximuin penalty for it was equal to the 
“Penalty for heing in iNegal possesion of 
arms. The man way not eurrying.on the 


| business with Messrs. Dodwell & Co,, and 


they,: in» fact, knew nothing about it. 
But he was using their premises for this 
business, and. he wag bringing into them 
people, who were ‘probably undesirable. 

_ Mr, Jenkin, replying, said he considered 
it’a matter for great congratulation that; 


there was a:marked falling’ off_in the 


strength of the observations by the 


Captain Superintendent .of. Police com-}" 


paréd with his original remarks. Mr. 
Wolfe had formerly contended that Justice 
would only be served by sending the de- 
fendant to ‘gnol, But. it would be a 
pitiable thing to-do, The defendant was 


no criminal, and could in no way come|: 


within the game aunbit as men. who became 


. Possessed of arms for the purpose of using 


Sidlence to: penceful. citizeng: within. the 
Colcuy, “aud against the police. The cuse 
which the prosecution brought against him 
was all adiluced from: his-own evidence. 
He had been perfectly. open: and perfectly 
frank, and lid told them the whole 
‘circumstances - of the cuse, 
circumstances Mr. Jenkin submitted that 
the fitting . penalty: for the, offence was 
a fine, and not imprisonment. .. He was 
more than: surprised that the police, -in 
Ppreseating their casc, had not made more 
of the fnrots the young man had given 
them. He could only attributethis to the 
cause that the Police, like ‘hiinself, had 
seen the truth of what the defendant said, 


band come to the couc'usion that these 


transaction’ did not come in’ contraven- 
tonof any criminal law., There wag no- 
thing ‘in. the’ evidence to bear, out. the 
Captain Superintendent’s :original alleg: 

tiongi that dofendant wax ‘n.traficker in 
arms. There was nothing in what-he-had 
done to call for the taking away of the 
man’s liberty; there. they had. a‘ young 
man, of good family, educated in: Eng-| 
land, vspeaking the English . language, 
playing English games, and having a Tes 
pongible pasitign with an English" firm,— 
the only servich that he (Mr, Jenkin) wax 
‘trying to render him avas. to save him 
from.‘nearceration in-Victoria Gaol, He 


ficiently met by w fine. 

‘His Worship said he accepted the young 
man’s story in its main features. The 
case, Would have given rise-to no mure 
trouble ‘than way usual in its .class,. but 
for the application of ‘the Captain Super- 
intendent of Police that he should he com- 
ons, and his expression 


OF ‘the yiew: that. the demandg of Justice 


would net be met ‘with -less than a’ term |” 


‘of twelve months’ imprisonment... His 
Worship did not adopt that view: There 


seemed no doubt but what ‘the plaintiff}. 


acted merely “ny a go-between for the 
Frenchmen and people it Kwangtung.-.He 
did-not, consider the circumstances of the 
eqso weré such as to justify. defendant’s 
being'sent:for trial, On ‘the other hand he 
did . not.* wish” to: minimise. *defendant’s 
ight to. be, carrying 
ons ‘without @ * polis 
permit, and no ‘right to’ be in posession, 
of the revolvers without ‘n. permit. . 
fine of .8500 would.he inflicted; ‘and’ the 


arms confiscated. 


» [70 ‘THE EDITOR ‘oF “* 


——. 


Sm, On Fri lay night Tispector ‘Fisher 


On those} ‘ 


- EN 


‘ 


‘COLOURINGS .| 


oe ws 
We a 
oe 


eh ABO, : 
‘ANEW SELECTION... 


OF SMART 


ae * 


BATHING CAPS. 


& 0" Bowes 


?  dorys’ eae: 


.” Parisian"$Perfume Essences. 


_ Emeraude, * 


1" Ambre-Antique; 
" dasmin & “Lilas, 


‘DAN 


BY “THE SHALIMAR 


ue Wiraour YOU... 


3285, 


Was ’phoued to“by someono.in Kowléon |’ 


who 
Society 
Toor Rail 


a ‘member .-of the 


“anyone,” either .a “-meniber:"of |. th 
Society’ or anyon cles, wishes td’ give any 
information.‘with regard. to -ernelty, th 
myst: give their- names, 

é to tho''rul 


Hey |. 


CHINA BOY «se - 
MYBU DD Y- 


(ROS@ OF RIO GRANDE: Fox-Teor'| .,. 
aon { DUM BELL ag [a8 


| gag9 


_ .Origan, 


2s 


{ <LANE, CRAWFORD, LID. 


submitted that, the ‘ense “would be. suf-|* 


GLISH COLUMBIA. 
CE RECORDS 


(WHEN WILL ENOW.F 
(DEAREST wc6 eae 
._ [PALE VENETIAN MOON; 

21) HAVE “YOU. FIRGOT- 
| “TEN ME? : 
jSHEBA ..., era 
BULL A’ SuaIRWaY. 


\ to 


NEW. AD HTS EMTS 


SCHOOL REOPENS: on “ TUESDA 
“SEPTEMBER tite, at 9 cst. es 
Boardars rete 


September 10th. 
Hongkong, 3 \ 


Beyhewbe 1 fisas 


Wise ts 5 the Disastraty Typhoon, uf tlie 
18th, inwt., the HEART for the IN- 
"AUGURATION ‘of the‘ 
STATION, for the Firs Brig ein MACAO, 
Jyehich was to take plage on the Isr, 2No nod 
tao, SEPTEMBER, hoa lnen POSTPUNED 
to w Dute which will "be. duly | nanounced. 


LIRUT. G, DA CONCEIGAO. 
(Comdant., Mucno Fire Brigade). 
we 


— 


NOTICE oY Fl REMOVAL, 
an a 
HE Officen.of the “ , “HONGKONG DAILY 
PRESS” have been removed. to 1A, 
CHATER LOAD (3rd fidor), to whish hetres 
all Correspondence should be directed. 
Hongkong, 1 July, 1925, 
; : 
N otic TICE. | 
eG have admitte’ Mr. Tr. GO GONELLA wn 


Partuer in my Business and the aie 0 ill 


be carrie! on nuder the Name aud: Style of |: 


HAZELAND AND GONELLA, Civil Eny- 


neers, Architects, and Surv Hyors, ws from TO: 


DAYS DATE. | 
‘BM. HAZELAND, 
" 93, Qneon"s Rond Central. 
Yat September, 1923, 3 237 


: HONGKONG CLUB 
* NOTICE. ' 


onpee THIRD YEARLY DRAWING 
of 90 DEBENTURES (1920 iswne—$500 
iach) of the HoNaxoxo Cret,: Puyable: on 
SATURDAY, the 297m SEPTEMBER, 193°, 
will be hell in the Cuvn Hovseat 14 octock, 
+ gat, on SATURDAY! the 8a SEPTEMBER. 
1928, 
Bearers of Deluntnte | are invited to attend | 


the Dra ing. * 
By Order, 4 
A. Me ABBAS. 
‘. Geeretiiry. > 
+ fl2ie - 


; _ Hongkong. even 1983, 


GREEN ‘ISLAND CEM CEMENT CO.. LYb., 


“W: INTERIM pie ot’ Fiity 
cents (S0“cent*) yer Share has" heen 
‘dete forthe Half-year eniling 3oth Ina" 
1 Interim "Dividend: will be able son 
and sfter TUESDAY; the 18th SEPTEMBER, 
at the offices of the pee gepeina where’ Shute- 
holders are regaested to apply for Warrants. 
Tho “REG TER OF SHARES of the 
» Company will ‘CLOSED from the 7th 
September, 1923, Pea the 18th September, 1023 
(both days inclusive), 
. Transfer of Shares,can we registere 
By Onl the Booed of Directors, 
WAN, TOMES. & bk 
: General 
" ‘Hongkong, 20th Angust, 192%, . 


é So 


HUMPHREYS Sgt. & YINANCE: “ 


" 


ler of 

» SHEW. 
utd. 

“tT 226 


Wenz, Is HEREBY GIVEN thot 
ificate’ “No. 2814 for” 30. rer 

' pumbered 55303 to $5332; Certificate No. 4817 
for’26 Sharex nuimbered 99861, to 90875; and 
Certificate No... 4420 for-8 Shares numbered 
9403 to S410 all registered in the Namd of 
GEORGE. HOYES have :been LOST of DES- 
> eta and ‘should these Certificates not* 
DAY oF QEPTEMBER, 1023, New Certificates 
| for the said: Shares will be -isxaed snd the old 
Cortificates .will thereafter be held by the 
Companyas Null and Voids" 
JOHN D. HUMPHREYS & BOS, 

"General 


* Hoagkong 1oeh Angin 1 igen [LTS 


é MEDICAL OF OFFICER - 


op POST ‘of MEDICAL ‘OFFICER in 
the Port of Curnitana. China, ix shortly. 
nities whould. be addrexned | 


Salling vacant... Inc 
he, Bartisy  Menrctrar 
botote fIah 


to’ the Secretary, 
CAURCIy Chinkinng. 


ao — 


aes etme 


THe HONGKONG J JOCKEY ou, 


HE FOURTH GYMKHANA MEETING 

F will be held on SATURDAY, the 6ru, 
‘ani MONDAY,’ the 8th OCTOBER, 1923, 
weather ery certs 


MATTIE id Baty "Forms may be 


‘ovine A the Racer .Counsx, “Hoxqxona ae 


, Cue and Cavsrwax.Bay Srauces. . 
Entei eon: Raturday, 


ed, ignces of Cargo aro hereby 
et that their’ ara Cae ne landed and, 
Re iaced at their risk n the Hongkong é Kowloon’ 
‘& Godown Company's godowns at Kow- 


loos, too delivery can be ltained as soon a8 


eve Jeft' the Godowns, and all e 
‘andeliverod -on. Beturday, the 6th Sept. 


New CENTRAL |* 


. “INTIMATION 


‘VEREENIGDE.- 
% | SOREEEV AART: MAATSCHAPPIS. ° 
(Our Nereus, Naneasriy Co) 


Ya LLAND- ‘QOsT. "AZIE “LET 
: (ocurred Aa Lore). 


“ NOTICE TOO © GONSIGNEES. 
fox BREMEN, HAMBURG, AMSTER- 
a DAM, ROTTERDAME ax GENOA, : 
G a 


™ Staamahip ‘ wo 
:“KERTOSONO qa” 


"-WEDERLANDSOHE ' 


a runic, "SEPTEMEE 
“INTLATION - 


JOHN DEWAI 
-& SONS, LID. 


-PERTEL SCOTLAND. “ 


_-RUBLIO AUCTION, 


npn Uiedensigned have d have rshivedinstructi ons 
: “PUBLIC jAUoTION, 


" TUESDAY WEDNESDAY AND ... 
THURSDAY 


the 11th, 18th snd 13th, Se] teraber, 128 
at HM, Navat. Yanp Hongkong, « 

et at Kowzoon Navan Daror, 
. commencing each diy at 9.30 a.m, within an a 


interval from 12 Noon to 1.0 Pu. ; 


Ss OLD, and sree NS AVAL STORES, 


ote : Cone. By: Royal cmc 


Mee Goulard & 
ims agains’ 
sented in 
of steamer, oth ; 
NO Biro Tnsuranca will be effected by’ the 
undersigned inu inmny caso whatever. 
Bills of Lading will be conntersigned b Sens, 
. . JAVAOHINAJAPAN 
General Agents. 


_ Hongkong 20th August, 1983, {isaz 


7 AMROISE? ia. ore 


‘ 8. 
“SERVICES CONTRACTUELS DES. 
, MESSAGERIES } MARITIMES. 


NOTICE. 


during which period nd’ |° 


the Company ‘before’ the 57H |: 


ONSIGNEES ot ot Cargo from MARSEIL- 
LES, de. alno Cargo ex 5.8, “DR 

PIERRE "BENOIT": rom Havre, La 
Palli &c., in’ candection with 
‘Btea are bereby informed that their gots 
‘with the exception of ‘Opium, Treasure a 
‘Valuables are bein: landed and stored at ce 
 visk ‘inta tha: Godowns. of : the Hongkoug- 
. Kowloon and ,.Godown “Oo., 
Kowloon, whence delivery may be Nae 
immediately after landing. 

Optional Cargo will be forwsrded on.unless 
intithation is received. from the Consignecs 
“‘bafare No os, To 
here.“ 

Bills of ‘Ladies. will’ “be “countersigned 


| the Undersigned.® Gone ronanng eles 


after the: Sth September, 1923, at Noon, 
"~{ be aubject to rent and landin gj charges, 
All claims: must bo sent'in to-me-on or 
before the.9th Seytembar, 1923, or they will 
not.be recognized, 

All packages will be examined. on 
Wednesday, the oh, September, 1923, at 10 
am., Bo F srs. Goddard & Dong ne. 

‘ire s Kosnrance, gor bers effected. 
ODENFUSER, | 

Actin; koeae . 

Bingo 30th Reus Hts: os 


NOTICE To Co! CONSIGNEES. ; 


THE, PENINSULAR AR AND ORIENTAL 
STEAM NAVIGATION CO-S STEAMER 
: “SLCILIA.” 
Arrived Hoxexoxe on. 30TH ‘Annban 1923. 
cael 


‘Fiow BOMBAY, COLOMEQ & STRAITS. 


ONSIGNEES of Onrge Carge by the above-named” 
‘vensel are hereby informed that their goods 

are being landed and placed ‘at rHure Risx in the 
Hongkong and Kowloon, Wharf 
Oompany’s Godowns at Kowloon, where each 
Powranaeut will'be.aorted'‘ont Mark'by Mark 


‘tad delivery evn be obtained as the Goods are} 


jandad, 
This ve 
Gull ex 
Optio: 
“inatractions have been ‘given to the contrary 
8 hours before arrival of the Steamer. : * 
feery not cleared within 8 days, including 
ef arrival will be subjéct to rent. “ 
No Fire Insarance will be effected 
pin aay case what ter. be i 7 a 
amaged packages mus} eft in’ the 
Godowna for eramination by' the Oonsiznecs, 
and* the Company's surveyors, . Messrs, 
Govpanp & Dovsr.as at 10 am, on parece 
and Thursdays. . 
All claims. must’ be presented “within « ten 
days of the Steamers arr arrival here after which: 
date they cann 


“OR, 
1 brings on Cargo from Porsian’ 
B.LSN. and B.& P.S.N. Co,’sSteauers, 


ot ed.” 
No claims zt ml bead tted after the gooda,) 


‘| gem Uetters axe iis at thi real : Oe Baty Press. 


‘hsve lett the God 
". MACKINNON,. 1, MACKENZIE - co, 


Hooekong Siet Avia a “ p239"- 


WNOTICE 70 CON CONBIGNEES, 
“The Btoamship ip “ROSANDRA * 


Fuox TRIEST anak SRAUATO,. 
“BRINDISL, 


NONSIGNERS of wd ee inform: 
oe ake Care are being i, | wt 


4 


Abra rae 


prteented ‘to, the. Und: 
‘abs 17th inst, or they. 
A eerrieg, Pe 


; Fire "Bar Tron. ete. 


‘above |. 


z requesting it to-be landed | 
by j 


‘and Godown |. 


nal Goods will ba landed here nnless | *- 


a 


Life Boats, Dingi a e AVhalers, Electrical sil 
Wireless Telegeap y Fittings, Electric Cables \, 
Cooking Stovex, Ships’ Fittin Tro. 

uttresses and bros ue slate atts, Lite 
. Mats, Tuble: 
Sunvax, “Endin 


- to His. Majesty: 
The King. . * 


2 WHITE LABEL” 


| FINEST: ” 


Lots may be ‘atonal’ on Sasi, the iy 


ae GREAT AGE. 
10th September. 1928, ie hee 
~ AWARDED. 50 coLo “AND 
"PRIZE: MEDALS. 


+} AlsoSALE of Od undSurplas ¥; ‘etuall agStores 
at Kowloon on FRIDAY, tith September, 
Comprising 
* Unnervicenble Promen Rabbit. Raiving, 
.Clathing as Mexs Gea 
Terma of Sale As detailed 4 in Catal 
HUGHES & HOUG. 
By Appointment Auctioneers to the 


soe", 


~The very finest old ». 
‘BOWERN &. co. 
:No 8, Muazux Ron, § 


oa sore WHISKY. | 


Members British Chamber - of Commeres | sah, Shs Sere 


(Gianghai)s Pie w. ae |: ; As sapplisd to the Houses of 
porated by Royal Charter, Lon: Lords ‘and Commons. 


Sruansize AGERETS ‘a¥D Suresnoxezs. | 
ate ‘Purchase, Sale and Charter of Vessels 


Passenger New }. 
ser on wath delivery Ge of Yor Lew 


‘tain a: Ormazong, anes Oeste Boavaror A. . Ww ATSON & 


SREGET Broxxns, ‘Masai ne ieazamch ¢ 
oan Ber Bale, New and Old i: in. Firat CO. LTD., “ 
“Wine & Spirit Mercbants. 


experts axD ‘Expos, Beisel -BRokans | 
Shan; Share-Bro Associ m.:| 
ion). fe a if /PEONE 616 


-} tion). 
~: Song gests yor 'CuInsi— 
Guzen's Parent gra a 
Bauozy Warnes & Co., Lap. (Bhofisld), 
Band Btrel ‘Manufactarora (Tank 
rand), 


— 


‘SOLE AGENTS :— | 


: BIRTH. 
TsyLoi—At the Glen, Cardross, on July 


4 
— 


“Catalog and Prico-Lista or spptiatin| 
dringh ter. (1230 
° MARRIAGE. ae 


_ Capiz Apress > BowERY, Shs : Swine, —Banciy —At All Saints” Church, 


Conrs: Ben ba aA EK 


dition and imceord marae only surviving ‘sen of , Mr. 


F Mrs, Joan Swine, of Hillingdon | 
to JuLiEeT 


; + House, Rarlow, Enaex, ” 

Banciay, second daughter of late’ Mr, 
_. Tueobore » Banchay wand of = Mrs, 
i Banctay, ‘of Funshaws, Hertford. « 
ate DEATH: 
“| Wearmestox.—At “the residence’ of her 
“) step-danghter, ’ Mrs. 

98, Clarence, 


TO 0a 


Ores in URION. BUILDING-Two 
Rooms on Fifth Floor: 


_ UNION, INsthaNoE sooraTy 
OF OANTON, LID, 


v« of the late THomas JO. WEATHELSTON, 
“of Rerwick-on-Tweed and: Chinkiang.. 
- China... ; Hs oy. 


‘| Hongkong Office: 14, Chater Road. * 
London Office: ‘131, -Fleet’ Street, Fc. 
——— oo 


PREPAID “ - WANTED ° 
"ADVERTISEMENTS | 


Boiee—XL, ‘XB, 880. 


ea ae apegatay hells *Howokoxa, SxprzMsce 47H, 1923." 
OR SALE. Wal Built BUNGALOW on — 
the Peak. Flat Roof. : Apply —Howe 
xona. Laxp. Scoble amp Acrxict 
5 LED op fad 


HE TRAGEDY IN JAPAN. 


War all means | are ire destroyed of prompt 
ly obtaining definite information as to the 
“results of “a great | disaster. “such as tbat. 
which has overwhelmed one of the. most. 


W\O LET.—EUROPEAN FLATS in 
Building, |. Wanshai ore Roa. 
to 34. Kenaedy, Rost. : 3 ; 


rally": ili em to hope thal the fi 


Press were well wit 
dein facts, We a 
that: the Joss of tte 


and the’ iine of union: ate ‘alway more or 
810 iceable.' In, Kryptok: lens no . e6>. 


‘Jearn: 
wvolved is petlectly, 
it true, 


2 SCOTCH WHISKY 


Hongkong. August, ie [1217 “in E V. | CT 0 R | h V AT 


“Bist, to Mr. and Mra, Kt. Tayion.. 


. Hertford, on Jiily 18th, Joux Kuwston 


O'Bares-Butist, |. = 
Gate-gardens, London, 
oN. W. on duly 50th, Ips Esa, widow 


thickly,” populated: arena al Japan, one is 


civanlice at “Toky®, {the’ modern: namie 
of, ¥edo) this tinw are ~groater, We do 
not ‘know. - what authority there is” for { 


‘| saying that the great onrthquake | which. 


Joceurred, .at- Yeo id November 1835, 
entailed tho denth of aver. one " hundred 
| thonsand persons. ‘A record of the prin- 
cipal.calamitiea that have oceurred * in 


Japan is. contained _ in tho Japan Year 


Book, and there.’ the ‘total .* number of 
houses wholly partly, ., destroyed in 
Tokioin 1885 is ‘given aa 50,000 and > the 
numberof deaths as 6,700, Obviously, 
' the estimates at ‘the casualties in the 
present great disaster “ean he but the 
wildest of guesses, W6é may ‘therefore 
continue ta’ hope that when the exnct 
number of deaths is ascurtuined—as- it |” 
will he in time, for the Japanose are a 
‘wonderfully Organised pevple—the “total j 
may prove to he ‘far helow the present, 
| appalling estimates, 


ar 


Tt is noteworthy. that Wiese to the: time ; 
of writing ‘this comment all the news we 
‘have had’ of the disaster “hax been’) 
entirely. from Japanese ‘sources, No 
description of the disaster has ‘eome 
from the Kokusai News Agency (which | 
js virtually a Japaneso hranch of Renter’ 8 
combined . with :the Associated Prous 
‘of America), nor ‘has anything | come 
from any of the corréspondents maintain- 
‘lod in Japan by Jedding Lendon and New, 
York ‘uewspapers. Anxiety ineteases, 
therefore, as. tu the fate. of the foreign | 
‘| residents of oth’ Tokyo und Yokoliama, 
One: of the. telegrams: received ‘yesterday 
raid ‘that nothing, was known as to the 
safety. even’ of the * Foreign ‘Diplomatic 
Representativ ex, which seems pattiduiarly 
ntrange in-view of the fuct that we are 
getting news of some of the’ measures: 
[order by Japanese Ministers, who are 
presumably in the Capital) As to -the | 
foreign residetits of Yokohania, .we shave 
‘only the news that “ the damage to the 
sbuildings in the ‘old ‘foreign Settlement 
is “particularly serious "and it is men- 
tioned that the Grand Hotel—the leading | 
hotel of the port—has been demolisheu. 
In the neav neighbourhood ‘are the prin. 
{| cipal foreign. business houses. Severat 
foreign firms, like ‘the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Bank, Jardine,: Matheson and,’ 
Co., Ltd; the Canadian: Pacific Stean, 
ship Co:y ‘the Messngeries Maritimes Co., 
and others, havo ‘their offices va or rin the 
near avighbourhood of the ‘Bind, and 
cat the time the earthquake occurred. it 
ig probable that the full ‘staffs would be 
in the offices ‘at_ work. Oue of the cables 
published yesterday mentioned that the 
buildings destroyed at ‘Yokohama were 
“jRoatly ‘close to the harbour, many houses 
beitig washed away. by tidal waves.  Alto- 
gether there must he approximately 1, 500 
‘Europeans residing in Yokohama, and 
probably quite ns many in Tokyo. The 
Japanesé population “of: Tokyo" ig about 
2,250,000; und that nt Yokohama is abont 
425,000. If the, estimate of 100,000 ensual: 
ties at Yokohuma—a quarter of the city’s} 
population—ig approximately true. it 
supplies. a..vivid ‘idea ‘of the akin 
character ‘of the earthquake’ and . 
necompanying’ tidal ‘waves, 


We : 
A Chinese’ woman named Yip Lai Sze 
died at “the Gevernment Civil Ho«pital | * 
over: the. week-end’ from’ the effects of 
opium ‘poisoning, believed’ to have been 
self-udministered. : 


Sir Francis ange yo, ven, KBE * Inspector: 
General of the Chittese Maritime Customs, 

‘| wax ‘invested with: the insigna, ‘of., “the 
Order by. H. M.: The King at “Buckingham 


Palace’ ‘on July goth an 
ale 


“The - engagement in: Sarcatuent! ‘of Miss 
K. E: Craddock, ~ eldest: daughter of Mr. 
ard Mrs, A. K. Craddock, of Shanghai, 


Matheson & Co, » Ltd 


‘uumyerett house i in Wu cee “ptecet, Wan- 


:lordered to gi! 


Io ‘Chup Bott: and. Mr. Wong ‘hoy bu, 
cone -godown ate: East: P i 


ippiig, epa 3 
obama. “Ho 


.,. without. flesh ‘or fowl. 


-Lguceedsion to’ Bishop Banister. « 


to Mr. B.D. F. ‘Beith, of “Megara? eran : 


Police carrled aut 3 a raid on, an un 


“tha engagerient iy, wanouneed between “ 
‘Archibald -Probart ° Jénes,: oldest fon, of ¢ 
Mr. and Mrs. H.'D, C. Jones, of Tee 
Hinover-terenee,” Regent's ‘Park, NN . 
‘and Violet" Rosemary . Cresswell, of “the © 
| White" Houae, Tite-atreet, Chelsea, daugh- 
ter of the late “Major Ac FR. B, Critowelt, 
of Cresswell, Northuniberland, 


According to the record of the rainfall * , 
during August, taken at, the Rotanieal | y 
Gardens the: total for the month was 95.18, - 
inches, Just over 15 inehes fel, in the Inet 
five days of, the month. The two heaviest. 
falls were G8 inches on August, 5 ath, and : 
3.08 inches on. August 28th, On the day - 
‘of the ‘typhoon (Anguat. sth) the fall'was | 

7b inches, a 


His Honour tha, Puiane slic (tn H: 
H.. J: Gompertz), “sitting: ‘in the! Summary, 
Court, yesterday morning, gave judgment .” 
Vin an undefended action in favour of the - 
| Tai Yik Cheong firm agninst the Shum... 
Wo Hing firm ‘for $1, 923,03 dimages for. - 
t breach of three contrnets relating to sugar 
transanctions. The plaintiffs” were repre 
sented hy ‘Mr. SE. M. Watson, 


Mio deewe? 4 
| "A amall Chinese’ hey," living, at’ 08, Des” 
; Vaux Road West, 
death’ on Sunday ‘night. The child wos’ 
in the third floor of the building suffering , 
froin ‘bad attack’ ‘of fever, It appenry 
that the mother went to wash his face with | 
kome cool water, and in the’ madness ine 
“flicted hy ‘the fever, the boy tock a running 
dive over ‘the verandah and into the street 
below. . He ‘was conveyed to the Govern: | 
anent Civ il Hospital, and diva shortly * 
after, ; : 


H 


j 


News. has been” recelved from Manily, of 
the death ‘ot an old. Shanghai régldent in, 
the person of Mrs. Mary Mitchell wha: - 
purged away in: her Toth year, ‘For aany 
years she wag a resident: in Shangtiai; : 
being, . the | widow of the: late’ Thomas 5 
Mitchell, well-known’ by: many’ old -resid- 
ents ax-Seeretary’ of the Merchant Service -- 
‘Club here.) For the-past Lt years she had 
been Jiving with her widowe: daughter, *: 
Mrs. Louis Aitken, in Manila: where she «- 
was much respected. . The deepest sym-° 
pathy ‘ig extended to her son, Mr, T, W. 
Mitehel, and widowed’ daughter, ' Mrs. oF 

.. H.. Milley, hoth of. ‘Shanghai. , e 


The funeral of Mr! Wiliam Henry’ 
Hunt, ‘whoaedeath ‘at Peitniho wns res’) 
cently recorded, took place at: the Canton |, 
-Road: Cemetery, Tientsin, on Sunday. Tho’: 
extraordivary popularity ‘of the late M : 
‘Hunt, ‘and the deep regard’ in which” hos 
was held: by® his fellow. business men, was: 
evidenced. by the large, number of friends - 
who, attended... The cemetery. chapel, was. 
filled with floral tributes,» Six: of Mr. 
Hunt's» clotext ‘friends ‘acted ay pale. 
benrers:-4Mr.. R..G. Buchan, Mr. FE. ne 
Coekoll, Mr. B: C. M. Johnson, Mr. -T.: 
Lange, “Mr. R.A. Eckford, and. Mr. 
D. A. Es Boll. The burial service wa 
ecidacted hy the, Rev, §. G. Tenkle. ’ 


“op, Aw’, 


1 in-its reference 


dares the Daily Erpreat 
to the condition of Chinése: 
‘diplomats abroad. It in true that they” 
have’ fot received snny remittance. from. | 
Peking-for the past. twelve months, but it 
is not quite aerate to my ‘thut for this. 
ronson they have to substitute chopetick _ 
for the knife nnd fork, “In the first place,.. “ 
the Chinese, abroad, whether diplomats or: 
otherwive,' take. and prefer, ther national” 
cod ‘most if not all. the times and,’ far” 
‘thermore, it, will’ not. be Chinese food 
Secondly, there ia: . 
no auch dish as’ ‘‘ fish salad’. on ‘the: 
‘Chinese menui.if there is, any dish “the-’ 


3 Chinese dislike it is‘cold fish: 


‘In “the ‘chapel ‘of fF Lambith Palace, eee 
July. 25th "the Von. John, Holden,’ MA... 
‘Archdeacon of Kwwangsi, wax consecrated, 
us Bishop of: Kwangai ‘and Hunan, in 
The. core. 
mony was conducted by the Archbishop: 
of Canterbury, assisted, by three, asristant 
Bishops.” ‘Phe sermon « was preached | by. - 
the Rev. O. -R. M. “Roxby, MLA., Viear® 
of Christ: Chuch, > Hampstead, : ho. ‘mid, 
that. Chinn; was, searching for. ita’ soul. 
‘A arent: responsibility rented on the now : 
Bishop, but there was. no higher task for.” 
any tan than ‘to help'to’ form and build’ -- 
up au. infant branch’ of the . Church. : 
Bishop Holden. is ‘returning: to China this 
month, 


‘Tie "Board 
5 


two... 
in: the Pesendores, Win 
sistance and: arrived at: 
"+ daylight On ‘Bares bth. There were abot 
350 persons. thea on. “board, the :wrecked! 
yougel,, or ich, beayy: was wore brea! 
: Rescue. work Was carsied, on with 
difficulty, .but! throughout .th 
a oh Ce March: 7th,” eters 


“p.m, and. by ce 
lying at” Poke * 


Fe mh ie 

sot, wor ! 

‘the wreck until ‘all ithe suryivors.cn: board 
t.Evany* 


“‘encourag' 
‘to,reach: 


met with a terrible vl 


‘Whas heen ‘thrown open to admit refugees. ; of 


THE: TRAGEDY” IN 
ENORMOUS CASUALTY . ‘ESTIMATES. 


J APAN. 


THE FOREIGN RESIDENTS: ‘STRANGE 


LACK OF 


FORMER FOREIGN SETTLEMENT x’ vowdiikank 3 : 


_ SU FFERED ‘BADLY. ; 


\ BARLIER, ¢. LBLEY, 
- femnoven RUUTRR'S Agency.) 


— pita 


THE FATE, “OF ODAWARA: 


NAGASAKI, dapeeiuhes aids 


i i Odawara.” is reperted to have cheon 
washed aieny by: tidal waves, but a Inter 
Teport says it is on fire. 


/ [Odawata was wv flourishing towly lying 
Letween Kote. and Hakone and was well 
known’ to ‘many, forsign. tourists. for. a 
Tight railway: ran from it to Atami, a 
ranch patronised watering place. |. 


8 RELIEF WORK. 
‘The’ Osaka ‘tan Kole Municipalities 
have voted’ 200,000 and 100,00 yen reapec- 
‘ tively for relief! The Tokyo Government 
is ordering Osaki and Kobe to send half 
‘nat million bokie of rice ‘within thre thay. 
: Warships wave heen ordered to, transport 


relief supplics, to Tokyo. The re storation 


a 
THE CASUALTIES, 
Nacasani, September 2nd, 

. This impossible to .éstimate, the agure- 
gate casualties:in all the affected districts, 
5 great garth- |" 
quake 0 of 1856 “willed! over 100,000 in Yedo 
Ibis fenred” that.the ensuulties at 


but it is remembered that, 


alone. 


; Tokyo this. time are grouter,, 


de, “is repotted that the Fuji Spinning 
Mills, near Mount- Fuji, have. collapsed 
and that 8,400 nporntony have. perished, 


“AE Hakone; 


sort, it is said to"he caniér to, count the 


people alive than thoso dead. 


Prince Saionji, hed ak staying at 


Cotemba, took refage in a nearby bam- 


hoo grove, and is snfe. 
SORE SHOCKS: At YOKOHAMA. 


A number of volcanoes are reported to 


of. tha. railway: ia not oxpected, for some f- 


title ; therefore relief must depen on : the 

Navy. : we = 
_Kven he ise igaged on salvage 

: work oa Submarine wo have how been 


ordered to participate in relief work, 


“The Nome Department has ordered neigh- | 


houring Prefectures ta move supplies of 


provisions.to nenrhy ports whete warships 


cate undertake transportation to Tokyo. | 


The wor ke of feeding over two million’ 
inhabitants of Tokyo calls for the suprema 
efforts of the whole. nation, 

Either, or ~ the 

Shan ghey Marn will probably -be trate 


. the se Nagasabi Ware 
‘ferred to Kobe to. assist in relief work. 
- “CONDITIONS IN YOKOHAMA. 
‘A mesenge «from Yokohama’ says an 
officer wf the Lendon Marn"who lnded 
reports hat dead podies are seuttered 
- everywhere ‘and’ that tens of ‘thousands'}- 
+ of refugees are gathered. in the park." 
XO NEWS ‘OF ” FOREIGN, 
RESIDENTS. 


j Oe September Srd. 
(Reed, 19.4 p.m.) 
thd snafety of the foreign displomatie 
representatives ” is not’ yet known and 
there is. no news concerning the foreign. 
residents of Tokyo: ‘ 


It is reported that the Yekohinma Specie 


* Hank and ‘the’ Grand Hotel hitye been | 


* demolished. Damage to buildings i in the 
Lod, foreign settlement is reported to be 
pisticnlarly serious. ‘ 


YOKOHAMA CASUALTIES - 
“ESTIMATED ° AT 100,000. 


‘he latest estimate of the Yokohama 
casualties is over a hundred thousand. 
Ite is reported that the Imperial Palace 


CABINET MEASURES. 
“Ata final | Cabinet: meeting yesterday 


morning, Count, ‘Uchida decided on” the |. 


promolxation, of: manetint law, an ‘Emer. | 


gency Coinmandoering Act and the estab. 


: . ‘Yishment ‘of 3 Relief Bureau. . 


wees * Maren.” 
“he “Ceveranient, ‘ka ae an Emer- 


Ws 


_eney ‘Commandeering.’ Act". ° a 
AWHAT. AN ‘ATaMAN BAW OF . 


aROy: Division: bas’ recived ‘the 
ne Jollowing ‘report: from. ‘Lieutenaiit: Tehida, 
: rb | reconnoitrod , “qoKfo : by. nor plane 
“ yeaterday’ afternoon? Saal 


The: Palago, is- pale, t there ‘ioing oy : 


“partial damage,.: eat re 


‘Tokyo - is ‘dovastated, eco for the 
. Unhigome ;, ward, part of Koishigawo, 
ward, practical ly the whole ‘of Yotsuya 


pr 
: ward’ und northside of: Aoyamndor:. 


- Practioally « sall- the: ¢oncrete . buildings 


‘and. brick buildings I have, collapsdd 
:  Pakugawa wand i is. Hooded: 


| night-time navigation is dangerous. . 


che ‘active. Yokohama again had mnavero 
shocks ut! one o'clock to-day, 

Tokyo vis burning | and explosions are 
heard? 


frequently “ Nahiody fs pernitted 


to enter Tokyo unless carrying a suffi” 
cient ‘supply of-food. + hee 
es FATEST - CABTES. 
: SASAKI) September ard. - 
(M4 pum.) 
‘ Tokyo still ‘burns, « , 
The Bank: of’ Jap: fun .is féported:t to have 


been demolished yesterday. 


1,000 “TONS OF RICK WANTED 


—! FOR TOKYO. 


Onan Ay September | Sed. 


The terrihle plight of inhabitants of 
Tokyo and Yokohania i ix pitifully ‘depicted 
in varions. newspapers reports. 
stance it is stated that hungry, people in 
Tokyo’ are trying to catch’ carp in, the 
pond j in Hibiva park: It is estiiiated that 


.| nt least 1 thousand ‘tons of rice will be 


wanted. for Tokyo alone.’ The quantity 
of the available ‘stock’ of rice in Tokyo 
is unknown, ‘because. considerable por- 
‘tion is believed to have heen lost hy fire. 

The authorities“ut-Osaka are making 
efforts to’ gather ‘a sepply ito. pip to 
Tokyo. ! 

Rice prices are advancing.» 


b LIGHTHOUSES IN TOKYO BAY 
“RENDE RED | , USELESS: 


Nhcasaxt, Resioatee ard. 


BAL wireless message via the Korea Morn 
states, that, all lighthouses in the Bay of 
Tokyo have’ “been ‘rendered ' useless and 


LUMBER FOR TOKYO. 


A Ww ireless . mesange 


intercepted at 
‘Sasebo,” anys the Home Mininter iB order. 
“ing the most speedy transportation of 
lumber, and other building asters’ to 
Tokyo. : ’ ae 
_ POSSIBLE ahaNSKER OF THE 
NATIONAL CAPITAL. 


: Osaxa, Boptsidber: ard. 


‘Vis possible that the’ “National Capital will Pn a 
he recs iar paidiost ‘3 Kyoto or eae 


f without. a seep, {ater alia. His Royal 
Highness: has: orilered ‘the: Main Palace, 
‘the Hania” Detached,” “Palace,” 
itsieake to be. thrown open to Fofagees. 
CASUALTIES’ IN. YOKONARMA’ 
~ EXCEED 700,000.07 

Oana, _Sepiember 


The: latest catinmate of the casualties 
Yokohama alone’ exvoeds 100,000. 
“A Naval wireless report stat 


8 dificult” e. “a over the: city, ; 


‘owing to’ flame’ arid smoke.: : 
Nikko, whero: His. “Majesty. is “staying, 

4a reported not to, ho seriously damaged. 
Tho Imperial Hoimehold Departinent, 
as also bumed di down. | ie 


r kura district are submerged. 
the famous ynountain re- | 


and: the’ 


“ATRMAN'S. $.REPORT. oF TRE 
DEVASTATION: AT! “TOKYO. 


‘ “Osaxa,: September ox. 
vw. . 845 p.m. 


‘The’ officer who flevs over the atrieken 
diytricts of Tokyo states that the Imperial 
ult was only pestially: 


-8 w 


Palace ‘is, safe. 
damaged. 
Tokyo: is igehusten: except for two 


wurds aud parts of two others. Nearly 


Van the concrete and pricks uildings. have 


collapsed and a tidal wate has flooded 
out) one ward," not a single houso : being | 
visible. 

The Yokosuka marine corps station at 


Yokosukn appears to have’ been entirely. 


destroyed: The holiday resort on the 


} nacre island of "Enostiima and the Kama- 


The airman anys he experienced urent, 
difficulty i in flying 0 over the city ata good 


observing height, owing to the intensity 


of the flames and the suffocating sauioke. 


The Minister of Home ‘Affairs in order- 
ing the of 
lumher nnd other building meer to 
Tokyo. 

FORTY FOREIGNERS PERISIT AT 

HAKONE...” Cea 


_ innnediate, transportation 


12.19 Bem. 


re eet el 


re prewentative met 


Hakono-n ‘auimber, : foreign refugees 
without food. 


Some ‘of them are wounded and they ‘say: 


who | rp pennylens “and : 


that) about: forty foreigners: perished at 
° ar 


Hakone. .-j, . me 

{Hakone is 4 village on the, inland of 
Honshin, 68 miles. south-west‘of Tokyo, 
situated on the’ bank ‘of a lake. famous 


for its beauty, in. a volcanic, chain of 'Osakw’ tind Kobe in which ho stated that} 


mountains rich-in minéral waters, [t'was, 
looked on as a Japanese Davos Platz.J 


It is reported that Viscount Takahashi 
and ‘twenty ‘other principal members. of 
the Seiyukni were killed- while attending 
a conference on Saturday eh My 
1,000" “TONS ‘OF RICE’ WANTED TO-}). 

TOKYO" “ALONE. : 


Newspaper reports epic. depict 
the terrible’ plight “of the population: “of 


Tokyo, and Yokohama. ma ” 


~The: foou -ahortage i in Tokyé-i is 80 ‘nente- 
that the people’ are trying to. catch carp 
in the, , pond of the Hibiya Park. 


Jt is estimated that at least a thoasand 


tons of rice “will he’ wanted in Tokyo 


alone: oe : 1 


» The: ‘Authorities, here’ ‘aro putting ‘for J 
great efforts. to collect a ‘supply for ship-, 
ment to / Tokyo; - in the meantine, the 


price of rice 38: ‘advas 


The, dane, “to. Tokyo is, 50° "extensive 


: that it ig possible the national- capital 


thay hie teniporari 


transferred to Kyoto 
or Osun. 


JAPANESE “PRINCE DIES FROM 
i! _ ESTE. RY cot 

: :- Maanan, September rd. 
. The’ " Nagoya Railway Bureau bas re- 
ceived: i report stating that Prince Mateu- 


kata has died: at, Kamakura an the result "A: 


of injury. wuatained in: ‘the earthquake. 
ManINét | UN DERWIITERS not’ 
: SERIOUSLY AFFECTED: ree 


: ‘Loxmos, ‘Angaat 2 end, 7 


be atrictly. imited, since after thi ui 


rs —_ boon careful: badd tha 


"5 of Topan. 


contained in the cables yesterday. 


‘| cabte 


; explosion |» 


‘| Canadian’ “Pacific : 
| Australia. hag: loat ‘one: of “her. propellors 
4 owing to being’ fouled by: -anotber.shi f 


ak Lox vas,’ September ard. 

* the earthqiiake- “ine Fapang quickly put 
the. internntional:. crisis in the shade. 
The magnitude of. the “catastrophe has 
aroused, the keonest sy’ apathy througholt 
Great Britain. which is voiced. in: news- 
paper editoriak, For exampls, the Tines 
says that such incredible suffering ean: 
not. failto, move tho heart of mankind, 
midst “che sorrows and cares of a troubled 
day. The first, need, however, is. help, 
‘and generous help will certainly be given 
to tho atricken nation whose magnificent” 
‘effort of will had been © on 
of the modorn world,” °” . 
» The Daiidy Mait says the Japanese who 
haye Riven many proofs’ of courage and 
coolness: in face danger and death, will 
doubtless face the present immense calim- 
ity with their aveustomed atoiciam, and 
boped that British warships will he dis- 
patched if Recensary to give all possible 
assistance, . 

AMERICA: AN 
Wastixctox, 


WELD. 
September ard. 
“The Red Cross has ordered its repre. 
sentatives in China and Philippines to 
rush to the aid, of Japan. 
AMERICA’S. SYMPATHY. 
NAGASAKK | Sejtemher’ znd. 


‘AS wireless 


GREAT BRITAIN'S. srararet, | ae 


of the wonders ; 


° GRAECOATALIAN’ CRISIS. 
- “ALLEGATIONS OF | GREEK 
ai | CONNITANCE. : DENIED. © 


A storm of indignitfon hav bach Atoused, 
in Greree over the Ttalian Acti jon, 


sign of. mourning, and ny 
bodiey have protested, 
The dewspapers’ ars uuganimods in con- 
‘demning the Italian ‘action, 34 
Conversing with the American 
who ‘wero leaving Atheny for Genicrs to 
attend the International. Newr Enst Con- 
ferduce { on Septomber 7th; Prem: 


declared that the” Greek Government firmly 


beliey od that the massacre was Rgt co 
mitted by Grovks.’ "The Allegations thas, it 
was eoinmitted by Girvok handy: and oon 
nived at by the Government; wero 

ed. The Italians’ demands were 
because Htaly had no “proofy w 

she could have the slighcst hold 

Greek Government: were responsible, 
Greeks had committed uo wrong, and their 
national honour would nat permit ther 
to plead guilty to: the: crime by accepting 
the re ranining Halian deniands, : 


ITALLANS ; 'REPORTED TO OCeUEY, 


Inessage intercepted at 
Sascho says President Coolidge has sent 
Pa mensage of sympathy te the ‘Emperor 


NEWS CABLED BACK FROM 
LONDON. 

Several cables were received’ ‘through 
Reuter’s Agency yesterday which had 
heen wired out from London, There wai, 
however, little in them which was not 
One, 
‘however, contained the statemerit that 
the Governor of Yokohaiin” “had ‘sent’ a 
wireless | Message . to the Goyernors of. 


_t there were 10,000 casualties at Yokohama. 


A. later cable, .from: Osaka, which we 
publish shove says the, latest estimate } 
ofthe casualties at Yokohama is over 
100,000. It is: manifestly impossible: to 
form -a ‘reliable estimate - yet. Another. 
“(sent * home front Shanghai) said |" 
‘that bulletins from Japan stated that an 
“completely. ‘destroyed - an 
atsenal; resulting in several thousand 
casualties. : There is ‘also the: statement 
that Japan's biggest railway tunnel, at | 
Sasnko,’ collapsed aid caused: the death 
of 600 persons, “Another ‘statement. states 
that all the railway hridges in vote are 
destroyed. ° 
“<A San Francisco cable says, wireless 
message from Tomioka states:.that the 
fire nt Tokyo was tcontrolled.at noon on 
Sunday. and’ ‘that the entire working class 
district has been burnt out. 


There is another from San Francisco 
repeating a wireless meansage from Tomio- 


‘|-ka that 700. persons. were killed by the 


collapse of -the Asakusa tower, Also 
that many ships were lost ag n_ con. 
sequence of the tidal wave at. Yokohama. 
As a good number of ships have been 
mentioned as heing in Yokohama,.in the 
cables .wlready published ":and there. has 
heen. no, mention in the Osaka ‘cables of, 


any serious shipping disaster we conclude |' 


that if ships were Jost they, are probably 
small native craft,- There is, we. should 
think, a good deal of exaggeration in a 
Peking message, which’has heen repeated 
from London, ‘saying that. wireless ‘mes- 
sages from the South of Japan ‘reports 
that the earthquake has practically do- 
stroyed the cities, towns and villages 
hetween Tokyo: and Osaka. 


“FON GKONG' s SYMPATHY. 


Yesterday morning, ‘Captain ‘Neville, 
ap C., accompanied‘ by the’ Hon. Mfr. 
2M. Fletcher, called on the Consul 
General for Japan, conveying a ‘message 
of sympathy . from His Excellency ‘the 
Governor.on “his own’ behalf and on 
behalf. of the community with the Japan- 
ese poople in: the ‘terrible citeat which 
cae earns the. gpeinicts _ : 


: We indindand. hat: a pane bina 
‘| telegrams bas been received in the Colony 
stating that:ithe offices of the Canadian 


ISLANDS, 4 
Later. 


tion 


: SAID TO: ‘Have HOISTED Arann: 
STANDARD IN. NUMERBURG. 


4 ey _Feport by the Chicaga Tribune which 
“up to the" presbat hay: Hot bev: confirmed: 


ca a Monarchist coup in ‘Bavarin, 


their” old time: uniform, marched 


Rawetnty hauled cove the eae 


"ANOTHER. ance REFUSED. ° 
cm |, ADMISSION, 


ie? ‘Your, September ea: 


hundred immigrants who 


Eighteen 


arrived’ promptly. for the September quota, 


ft 
Ltt be" refused. admission, the Immigra.; % 


that the 


steanuers were x docks: a few miputes be~ 


Authoritioy contending 


It iy , reported “ptt au “tne unconfirmed 


that the Italintig have ceeupied the islands 
of Cophalonih and Guinos, 


's GREER, NEWSPABER - 
SUSPENDE 


“ithe newspaper Beftbcortaper Was sUs- 

day for styling the Tralians 

“Fugitives of | Caporetto,”’ "ithe Censox 

has been , dismissed for allowing ‘publies- 
tion ‘of the insult: "f ie 

: Row r, Seplember” end, 

. ttstian, coat uaa the small islands, 
of Paxos and Antipaxn., 

This action ig regarded here as ; simply 
the cimpletion 6 the Italian. action’ at 
Corfu, 2 uy % “I 
THE ‘LON AND THE", srTUAtION: 
“cate! “PaRUn, Soptembir, Bad, 

a “In: well-informed “tircles it ix belicvod |” 
that ‘tho aljournment Of the League: of 
‘Nations’ decision un the Greek: appeal till 
Tuesday is due’ to the 
League. is legally entitled to take. the place 


feoLGa kts ee 


tse sendency but’, athe Britons secured. 


several doubles; aotably, thowe.in. 


Godiree and" Barron beat Bouman and - 
Van: Lennep “by 0, é1 and: ‘Misa, Colyer 


“bam ‘Wheatley ~beat Mue,. Tellegea and. 


Raiite, 62, G GB, 
_ BABLIEB CABLES, 


TRE IRISH ELECTIONS. ee 


1 me 


FINAL STATE OF. THE PARTIES. ; 


: Dusty; ‘Sepienbor Sn. : 
The position of the ties thin ‘evening, 
was: ene ee eee 


"Government oan 


tublicansy 4.35. 
pee “ 
. Faymerg : 


doubt whether the]. 


of the Conference of Ambassadors i iin sot 


ling the. Itulo-Greek™ dispute: “e 

_ COL. PERONE: ‘RECALLED: 

Ii ig announced ‘that the Italian ‘Lega: 
tion middenly retalled Colonel’ Perone, the 
Italian Military Attache who: was sent to 


J: anina to enquire into the masacte eas the . 


ITALY: ter dans’ TO ACCEPT : 
‘LEAGUE'S « DECIBICN 
The : Talis “Midinter, Marquis ‘Mon- 
tagna, has. informed the Government that 
Ltalyrefunen to accept the Secision of ‘the 
League i Nations. " : j 
GREEK: ‘STEAMER, SEIZED ‘BY: 
_ ATALLAN SUBMABINE::: 
ae, Loxvoy, September’ 2nd, 
: A micesng> from Athens reports that it 
‘is semi-officially atated | ‘that an” 
submarine seized the steamer. Gierys 
that, ‘the. Italian Admizal. Tellini has for- 
hidden Greek. steamers to jnug through the’ 
Straitsof Otrante. 

Four Greck ateatnors have. jiees detained’ 
at Italign ports, 

All: ‘Greek shipping ‘companies faye sux 
pended their sailings . to Italy, but Greece 
ig’ stil pormitti r a ships. to, call’ at 
Greek: parts. © 

- The Government ‘sai provided 1 
fachment of'3. 


, 


pens 


Pacific Railway Co, and of Messrs. Butter-|: 


Yokohama: is also ntated -that: tl 


‘fines. Empreas’” of 


is believes ‘that there mg second,- ‘emails earthq 


‘on the’ afternoon of Septenher: t, 
But C4 at‘ 1th. 43m: ‘and lasting until: 16 
a soaxiorum: mauvenstat, e 1imme., 


lon the morning of Beplember 2nd,” 
1b. Sera. Led coding at Mb. a 
‘Thmrms., 


“| field: and ae hava. been: wrecked’ at]: , 


us 
eticialy shaken th 
“| demonst 


atthe: Ts ian, Me ceiata on 
a ot whic was ioe tei 


jy'e- Gor! * ahiguld e 
srongthening League,a, bi 


Shiew- Duil -assomblen on. ‘Septembe 
‘ois There. is fuch xpeciilation: whet 
the Bepablee will put in an appearance. 


; ~ Loypow, " Boptember and. . : 
- Nuinber ‘tive, mele of the. emus how: 


men to. piard!the Ttalian} 


THE HONGKONG , DAILY PRESS, 


a 


TULSDAY, 


er : ‘ 


4H, 1938. 


S: PiEMBER 


, PARIS FASHION: NOTES... 
[FROM OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT 12AuL 
So pasgay.) | 


Motor Car storiag, wasblag and cleaning. | PRS 
. inthts, our new concrete Main” Garage and -"MO NTH 


‘ dress-is covered wp by a cont. In Winter, 
of courtse,.is would be impossible for her 


* vt be ere or 3 st . me 
-_" Ree para eee 4% x . Wee ad whee 
~ 1° NAPIER JOHNSTONE’S 
d Nee. mgs avert een bares a eo 1 Panis, July 2rd, 
to do otherwise, but even'in Spring and 


; ; Pie : wf The day-time coat is’ a most important 
eas Dhaene sp! (REN Shae he ie ee oP item in the wardrobe of a Parisenue who 
ak Mae A aims at being, dressed with elegance and 
. : i. ; : + . | in, good taste, becinuse, according to some 
. sie 4 q e ee BB, 3 F 
! t ¥ . : : ; : —_ . . | d+ [Summer sho is supposed to add a light 
gti ~~ * ' oon B  feont over her dress. On particularly hot 
y . : oa v « | days she may compromise by adding a fur]. 
" hong 4 - : stole’ round her shoulders, or. else a scarf 
, : : 5 me ot 
b6 97. ‘ 
= yal : : € ‘| €g 2 
. , eco: i 
0 N 
pre-eminent. — 


‘ sho in never sup- 
that matches the hide and trimming of 


Service “ Station, Wong ‘Net Chong Road 


(Happy Valley), upper end of Race Course. 


ored.to go uut in. the street unless her 
thing either covering up her dress entirely 


& engi 7 wT 7 


or else thrown round her shoulders. : 

At the beginning of Spring, when dwellers [ 
in this ity. fondly imaginal that. warm 
sunny days were about to be’ bestawed on 
them, most women Jaid in a store of light 
Summer wraps ahd capes These, for the 
mont part, were in a thick quality crepa 
Marocain, in taffetas or in satin. Crepe 
Marocuin, however, was the most favoured 
macerial, aud the ‘form in which it_ wns 
made up was that of the cape. Quite 
simple lines were followed, and very often 
a coloured lining of thi: same material 
Ya | added, “v that the cape became a re 
one which? could be worn ag a kind of 
dust-wrap in the day-time and alight opera 
wrap in the evening. Po saw acsimpie yet 
becoming medel of this kind chez Jenny, 
which was rarried outin black crepe Maro- 
entu and a lining of the same material‘in 
a light shade of almond green; the shape 
was a perfectly straight one gathered into 


myterions sartorial law, 
hey dress, but she must always have some 


ACON-MOTOR CA 


. A the neck aid finished with: large chou! i : Ext , = wo 
ee 0 Toes in’ piteruate, shusies of plats ani os 7 1s Sods Tel 2 a 0 at — 
OBTAINABLE -FROM - green, and round the line of the shoulders - f 2 sr. » - os ‘ 
? . oe ; é were added thre: wide tucks ¢ut.on the - ‘ a 
ee DBTAINABLE FRC Sead te ike ah THE DRAGON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LTb. 
olin wapes that are always so youthful and fresh- ; nee i 


Main Garnge and Service Station. r : Telephone Central 482 or 3950, 


: uv 
“ « 


looking. These, also,-were mostly in crepe’ 
“Marocain, but reached no longer ‘than the |" 
waist of the wearer. ‘They, were cut  por- 
fectly plain and finished,as a rule, with a 
| straight band of the materia] und two long 


_ ~~ €y ORAWFORD, LTO. 


“AND ALL WINE: MERCHANTS. 


strenmers that fastenend in’ front: & she et 0 Bin whe fot : | . 
i : oe peeuliarity about thew short capes is that TE POELMIONEIEY " 
a 4 2 : thes ae rarely satchel right up round} ~ " : ws fou 2 ’ . _ 
. This pure old Whisky has had, since 172.5, the: neck, but rather, are allowed’ to r nsider Y Ith " : . . P 
a great eben amongst conncissours ° slip down snieshal and he coat fighty : 6 i ont ta Baby s Development-through Healthy 
‘ “ round” just ahove the shoulder linea ist . s : A 
: " for gen ore fravonr, ls ide rom aa ry aparian caprice that, adds greatly to their general apes ye cane im devests a Infancy to Sturdy Childhood 
rf ¢ miery air of grace and youth. . . you than the state of Sear Beat th? i Desends , oe: - i. 
j a But the cold winds and driving rains yeu are troubled with bed or indittersst pends upon the use of pure food.’ The ‘Allenburys ’ 
s oF Sys that came anil drove away the pale May hheatth your. capscities fer werk or Foods, made’ from rich creamy milk, are absolutely " 


| plensere are eftected. Theussads af 
Detple Knew by old experience tist 


eectan's 
| Pills 


sunshine compelled women to give up wear- 
ing these.dainty trifes and wrap them- 
xelves, instead, in coats made ‘of fur and- 
woollen materials, [t compelled designers at 
the same-time to bring forth the Autumn 
models . they would otherwise not ‘have 
launched ‘iusthe. world till next October. 
so that Paris | was; provided > with — the 
‘apectacle of women going about in Juno 
wrapped up in the conts of the Autumn to 


free from harmful germs and need only the addition 
“ of boiling water to prepare them," : 


eI Mtlenburys | 


‘ugtatica Foods for Infants: 


ing 
{anagement’ will be : 


come. : 1 : 7 “ e ‘ = 

‘Of these, I have already written in my are a biccslix fm the Wensebeld + wm Ttation "The ase of the'Allenbarys’ Foods gives com- b 
letters about, the Grand Prix and’ French und exerclse a mest beneficial ct ; a yu, Plete independence ofdoubtfa! milk supplies. % i 
Derby. but, sings then, they have blosson: | fa cases of rey lu 


ed forth in greater and more yaried num. |’ 
‘hers. The preyailing passion -ix for the 
long. straight cons that has certainly bean 
malelisd-on the lines of the hiamble bath- 
} Wrap. This alwiys fits tightly round the 
pbips and hax’ no ‘relief’ of any kind about 
‘Pit-other than the fantastic colour or 
pattern of the “material, of which “it sis 
made, ct; the qirintity or gorgeousness of 
the fur with which it is trimmed; the 
sleexes, while not exaggeratedly, wide, «are 
large enough for aly typeof dress sleeve 
to be warn underneath with comfort. This 
type of coat‘inay be made in duvetyn, .in 
-} crepe-Marocain-(re=wiie or-de--lnitte),-in 

reps, in, velours, in broadcloth-or.in jasper 

verge, this last-named material being one of 


- Allen & Hanburys Etd., 40 Catton Read, Shanghai. 


be ne C d ” 
Made in Canada” . 
on ‘QYER.s Billion ‘Dollars worth of merchandise was _- 
exported from Canada during tho year 1922. 
There is a growing demand {for “Mande in Canada” 
roducts from the leading countries of the world, . ‘ 
Tt you are interested in establishing trade cone 
“nections in Canada, we shall he. pleased to put you 
ta touch with reliable export houses, 
| Write to our'Foreign Trade Depiriment, Montreal. ; 


- OF CANADA. | 


*  Enterpeise—Service—Co operation, 


remedy to Bave at 
band in readiness for every 
occasion whero’ need’ arises. 


They have the largest: sale ef sry 
Pret 


pristary Medicine in the Werld and 
have carned the reputstion of beirg 


“ Worth. a: Guinea a Box.” 


ae Let. your palate 


\' bé your guide. 


‘to the all-important 
c ry with which it is te 
} be ‘covered Sasa rile, is carried gut 
inn chain itch, and. the colour schemes 
vary. from that of white agninst o black 
batkground — or to pat. 
terns worked in eve 


» 


cy 


, of . 
\, Bugs,-Fleas, 


. Distilled and Bottled 


in Scotland ' Flies, Beetles, 
; . by 4 Mosquitoés, 
_ PETER DAWSON, : @. ete, 


ont Limited.” ; ) 
" GLASGOW. “a [MA 


eee sap 


Wie 


| QPECIALLY BREWED FORAEXPORT: — - 


ga wPron sewent-ta. | 


 UIMITED, » 


"< "gold Distributing Agents for Hongkong aad Scuth Chine Mesa, i. 
oe & Bons Queen's Roed Central, Hongkong. : 


‘ture and tone. A soft hat. made’ of tweed 
to match ‘the coat, aud trimmed vith o 
band of : the ‘material, it iy made of,.com-{ |. 
| pletes ‘a, simple but harmduious eusorifle of 
colour and materials) * na 
The skirt with « pron drapery across | 
the back.or, fruut is’often worn with. the ||” 
latter type ‘of cost. no deubt: because its 
flaring volume ‘rather: éncouragessuch~ a vee 
style in the-dress worn uti ser a ‘Even fdes 0. . 
a serge or. garbadine skirt will. bai mh oo 
apron effect-of the sme material, usually 
trimmod’ with a pleated frill of ‘taffetax. | 


“SOLE “AGEN SS 


BUSSAN: KA)SHA. LED: - 


At Poet ee HONGKONG. © , : , es , . ea 2 


MITSUI. 


EKLY pe 


eT me Fit betel” LO 

| ing a ; Fea bee personaly Be Meh Sere 

, Hee ioning a ‘cont.such. a5.:this . f bi r _ Meg bomen ope oo : 

i | Li) ee ce length, ond A “2 EtiCS aa aes 

= _ 7 e hi 4 by Esvancan! Foe rrieases at these IMPORTARE, 

P y en + ROARS, GHATES, BACKACHE. GOUT, RAKUSATIOWs 
cE CHEMISTS ri 


eh  . 


| ..THR-OLD MERRY-GO-ROUND] ©: r= a 


Vecuate, Teor f |EGZEMACN SCALE 
HAR FELL OUT. 


* * COMMITTEE “OF MERCY. prow 
in Pimples: ples. On Child's 
Scalp.” Cuticura_ Healed.- 


TS 
; ‘BATLINGS ‘BUBJECT "TO ALTEDATI aN . 
BANGKOK via" SWATOW. ww “ EWAISANG™ Sey ite Sept, aed Pa 
TSINGTAU via BWATOW: . ' os 
» * & SHANGHAL ote vee! -“TUNGSHING": ee ; 
oe . “CHEON ad pier tek Bept 1 pam. 
, ; “° iC Tharaaye 6th Sept, 8 am. 

HAIPHONG via HOLEOW w: aEEESANG™ swe yiday, Th Sept, € am 


“Mo. Lloyd George was the chief eer : 
at © meeting held in Britol on July aath p>. 
ander the auspices of the: Wesleyan Afetho- 
dist Conference to consider the subject of 
| ©The Churches and Waerkd Peace”. Inf: 


THE. “NEW. ROUTE” HOME 


; 3 A the course cf his remarks he referred te ars lirtle car Little gut ‘th ee 
-— WIA = ) J the position of France in the Rube, and seat oat tale tl ose, 2 2 : NANG EAT SWATOW.” “LORSANG* Frida) » 
h seslares atts san Great Bea eth f) ) gradual area tors swale : MANILA wee 8 TIN GSANG * me rides Tee Se, Noon, ? ‘ 

might in. the war France would kaye been og worse unt : SHANG aes ” u . Eee : ah 

CANADIAN 0 'N ATIO AL RAILWAYS, today where Gérmany is, Er bead wag ong steer iid is reNoritl te SNATOW ie appeen ES ai pie ee 

. At thu outset of his -spech Mr... Lloyd not sleep or rest. ‘ & SHANGHAI ... us) oo “WAISHING” Wednesday, 12th Sept. Noo. “| 
George. drew a gloomy . picture of ww hat hoff" “IT readan advertisement for Cutl-'|.” STRAITS & CALOUTTA eon se “KUTSANG" . .Friday, lath Sopt,3pm 9.) “ 
J CKOBE ue ie ae ee te coe "HOSANG” | we Tuosday, © 26th Sept, Noon, 


declared was going on in Europe. to- day, 
In spite of the lessons of the: war,“ tions 
were preparing, devising, ingeuting fresh 
machiuery of wars They still placed the 


¢ , Linking the Oriont with Europe. 
CALOUTTA. LIS3 — mu Line affords regular ‘gatlings Calowtes, Ponan 
more, and after using = pore yrexurning trom Oslca ea etaariine Esters Ky Bas 


one cake of Cuticura Scap and one oo ee a ana Beoutent to ve 3078, cocastonally caling at 
: tteamers . bave~ excollont . passen; 


‘Bookings completed on’ all frais. Paeilie Lines from 


. ' spendence . are was De bax of Cutieura 
Hongkong. to’ Victoria and Vaticouver thence Across such seta Panini ieee natures, healed.” (Signed) peal eed ; =n ls ‘ i ‘ata: 
Canada to Montreal or New York and Choice at any "Trans. There hut been drawn one ae only i Esmbhns hem chp pagent zi . ‘BBARGHA). ans alan sass Til 8 i. pont ‘ nce Ba Berne, peak 
Tom eo WaT, Hit it was tha rp any . 3 lor evety-day toi- £ 
Atlantic Line to Liverpool and London. safety of ihe se ae “Tore, ant still | Letuses. Soap to cleanscand purify, ; apebal, mane S Tmeumet oe alg at Ayaten Through: tickete oan 
Ointment ta soothe and pare ’ ' é aad’ throagh . Bi Lading aD - ated te 
: : ete Yangtees Ports via tBhasighal 


poe force, That) w as distat rons ‘tw 
wimanity. (Cheers) 

The real lepou of the war had not been] > 
duderstoud in’ the’ country? (Gerniany) 


ABIL — LINR;A' weekly service in matatained with Mania by voaseia with c008 oo 


: Canadian National has Best’. Service at Economical Rates. 
B00 merry sallloge from,hoth ports ovexy Friday, 
" RAIPHOB@ LIME att oot “tar? 
fate Oy) whee & pemenaeet 3 and _ mato. 


ig Particulars: with Mlustrated. Booklets supplied. - which maffere must from ‘the | follies “ot eae ' 
war, and the same shing war going on ele “see BORO sina rinight from Bands : 
« bwhere: The nat that were weak before ‘ ‘ ~ d ‘ates 7! r cea a se 
GENERAL TRAFFIC OFFICES: re a ieee to be Stromg: aunt going a an oe es aes Re a’ Boab seni: 2 oll 
ee : 5 Bills aut Frains tor Kudas.  Sevealion, beans Tt Tawes 


strength, The nations that 


“> and 
JIN TBIR LIeRa, regalar. re ran from March td: Nevember between. 


refore the war mehar to get]: 


Queen's, Buildings. § 3, Ghater Rd. 


Phone c. 200%. * . : 
: wes + weene again and revenge their defeat, 
: The old merry-geroutnl of the devil was] 0 . Hongkong and Rat at Welhss 
going to begin in the affairs of mea, The ey BANGKOK eae service ia pro provid detween vena © rp ee 


« om Benton ty five =n Sited. oe ni aaa 


CALCUTTA ul NE 

“ “ KUTSANG” will ‘be despatched on or abe yet Tm 

Friday, 14th 'Sept., at 8 p.m, for SINGAPORE, PENANG | Md 

-&CALCUTTA. ©... ge Yes 

Through Bills of, Ladingiasued to RANGOON, MADRAS, PORT 

aie | SWsTTENHAM and. DUTCH: ‘RABT. INDIES. eae 

Tor Fieight’ or. Pasmge apply, fom | ‘ vo Tee ' 

- Jardine, Mathieson & Co, ids ve 


GESEEAL MANAGER, ae 


h. Ty 


Churches umusi stop it,“ (Cheers) In 
Great. Brtinin the four’eaused hy bombing 
was now Togarded as wjoke, “They, could 
not trust to human terror, They must 
trust fo sofiething higher, . nobler, 
(Cheers.) Mau was a terrible animal when |, 
he was roused,’ Do uet trust 'to his being 
afraid, “A policy based upon the. cows 
ardive "of ‘man’ would fail. Enfist his 
courage ‘on your side, “(Cheers.) There |: 
was ofly oe way. They must train the 
sense of the community to: treat war as 0 
erime— {cheers)--to put it in the category 
of crimes of violence, They must put the 
question of national hononp and national 
right and wrdng'in the samo category - 
guestions of individual right ant wr 
(Hear, hear.). Uf there were n dispute he 
tween man and man it was settled in the} 
courts and by arhitratior. . The real 
trouble was ythis—that so long as one 
nation conceived that it’ hnd got ‘at its 
command a force strong enough to insist 
on its rights it. would “not submis - those 
rizhts lo ‘thé arbitrament of nn impartial |" 
tribunal, That happened to Germany and |: 
Austria. .and the same thing was now go- 
ting on ahout Poland and Lithuania. 
-- =." FRANCE AND THE RUHR. 
What was -to be said about the Rube. 
Great. Britain lost 900.000 fives in the war, 
‘apart frum: tho ten ‘thou-nnd milliong »he” 
spent, She put thee whole of her great 
might into. it, pang without that might 
France would have heen ; ay where Ger- 
any ix. (Hear, hear.y 
through her Government. 
.the matter to nn interti 
‘of-experts.” But France ches ‘to tefuse] > 
J and took her own.course, o Uotil that tem- | 
per changet there never would "he peace, 
and. jt. was ‘only the Churches that coulll 


changeit. “We begged France (tontinued 
Mr. Lloyd’ George) to refer the matter to| 


ADMIRAL “ORIENTAL. LINE 


ADMIRAL ORIENT 
““ " BREIGHT, AND PASSENGER - 
a THE’ ‘NEW FAST AMERICAN , STEAMERS TO 


SEATTLE & VICTORIA © Ey. 
as SHANGHAI—KOBE — -YOKOHAMA. : : 


“PRESIDENT GRANT® ae os 
A PHENEDENL MADISON" ce” a 
“PRESIDENT. McRINLEY * =e 
_SPHESLDEST JACKSON" 


\ 


AW 
\ 


q 


lr You ans a CONNOISSEUR. : 


v 


TO EUROPE-£120- -£1 12—e1 10. 


“First Class on the Paci. inst Class on American or Canadian Railwiss,: First 
— Clnas and Monocless and Second Class on ‘the Atlautie, Choice of ‘Trans Continental 
Railways, Any Line olithe Atlantie, Through Accommodations an Mooking Arrange. 


TO MANILA : 


“PRESIDENT MADISON" se “ae nee eee, ee Sept Oth. 
“PRESIDENT McKINLEY be lee eee ts wont. azn. 


Through Bills of Lading to all United States and Ganadton Okerlund Pointe: is 
vote,  alao vio Panama Canal Lines to Atlantic Ports. : 
"This paper inon Sle at our NEW YORK QEFICE.’ 


~ For Passage and: Freight Booking apply to 


OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE | ‘Truner Quwmast Ho, 515. 


H. RUTTONJEE & SiN. 
{463 


"GLEN, “= SHIRE 


oust Ssarics oY Breakmns, - 
0.6,- STRAITS. 1OHINA :& JAPAN BHRVICE 


ADMIRAL ORIENTAL “LIND. the. League of Nations. Shoe: refused. 
iis Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. Building Gros Floor). ‘fermany-is-not in-the League, nor Russia, ACCIDENT & CUADANTEE: : 0 ARDS; 
Telephone: Contral 2477 & 2478. No, 4, Des Your Road. ce es United States, *That-alters the}. CORPORATION sMeure UTW oes a HOMEWARD. 

: whole character of the League. [am not { ‘ a 
re tavemt ot aazioa herein, pence wher’). f ac pee cepa ’ Veowel, i . Dis Hongkong, Vessel Leaves Hikong- Discharge”, 
there ix not peace. 1 am not in favour. of |... REN RACE ba) _4QLENLUCE": ve ew 40th Sept. |" GLENBANDA”* ‘.'— 16th Sept: 

“ «. 26th Sept. | Genos London, Rotterdam kad Hamburp, 


| saying there is u- League where there +: ~ 
“Ino League, and Thee: wilf  be™ iy BAGGAGE BURGE A: 
League with tho authority of 2 Lengue of EMPLOYEES INSURANC 
Nations until you hase’ got these nations |, 
inside it. (Cheers. ye 

. ‘Napoleon in his worst frenzy never pic 
tured. anything like the late war with its 
carnage, desolation, and destruction! What 
if, there is another. _ (Hear, hear.) I had 
- } something to dod g.the war. (Cheers.), 
‘And I iy. that even tf you have to walk 
through the gates of Hell you ‘have to 


GLENO 

~ # CARMARTEESSHIBE” tb Oot) 
“ GLENAMOY Oct. | “PEMBROKESHIRE” ... séth Sept | 
“GLENABP” soci. RiNor., |. Kondo, ‘Roterdam and. Hebe, | 


Miriansaia are subjeo to ane = native. 
“Yor Exsight or fartker partionlyr vlesse 


- Jardine, Matheson & Co. Ltd, I 
‘The Glen Line, Lid, AGENTS. fo 


“mglopnone : ; Canta! Wo. 215 wab-ox, 33 pera bai 2000. 


ee 
HUGO STINNES - ‘LINIEN~ 


Regular Monthly Freight and Passe Bervice looser Bacties betes Japan, Chins, eee: 
Manila and Straits and Hambarg and other North Go ntinental Be ad 


‘OUTWARD from Hamburg yis Ports of Call : 


SHANGHAI OFFICE: 
: . No, 89, Pexixo Roan, Suaxauat , 


: — 
AGENTS for Hongkong and South China ai 


a“ 


Steamers OV genage, de, fu aretat 


ae 


*Adolf von Beer ots: toe tee ae 9,000. tons ° First half of October save freedom. Cannot the Churches st up | ’ 
‘Emil Kirdorf « ee ap ed tae im Balt ot Dowaber, a Comm mittie of Mercy ?. - (Cheats, ae 7 DODWELL & CO. - -LTD, — . - , i 
+8chcer «oe oo vee w 22,300, tons ‘irst hall o! cember. authority of ‘the Creitor is deed. ‘ cos : . ' : a ean ‘ 
*Albort Végier 9,000 tons nations ure plotting to burl more defiance: sae g me ek 2, saad Bune . Poi : Boia tee Baek Sen SUE, Sage TU aaah oat 
v . “ : - ‘ at Ilis throne. . {t is time the Churches of ‘ a 4 . ws Sey ee wea? SOG aa, Se 
as i os Christ throughout Christendom ‘ should 
; stand by their Prince.” (Loud Cheers. 2) a 


“ 


—_—_—_—— 


“CATERING R G ROMA NCE. 


Bl, 500,000 FIRM’S’ {MS START WITH 
: -OFFICE TEAS. 


The HONGKONG & WHAMPOA DOCK On; Ltd. 
TELEGRAPHIC _ADDBESS:. _“ MANIFESTO,” HONGKONG. .". ° oe 

Conta Deen + “Aly ABO. ‘Fifth Edition; Bagineering : First and Becond Edition ; he oF 

eesti te u, WesternJUnion and Watkins. , . ne? . as 


‘Dock : Owners ‘Ship Builders, Marine and ‘Land, Unginears! Boiler Makers, 
Iron and: Brass Founders, Forge. Masters, Blectricians—~ pee 


* The death boots place jaddeuly Aaently 
at Porthcawl, of Mr; Richard E. Jones, |. 
head of the South Wales finn which en- 
tered the. London catering and . hotel | 
| business in the lnst:few years. Mr. Jones 
| was, visiting his doctor’ for a ‘congultatien 
; a he collapsed a and at the surgery ie 
joor,’ if 


borer pe 
Coffee Tavern. ‘retthiong water: himself 
from a ee for: ad vto he thade- ip , 


lama ht ay 


offers excellent <2 Ss cabin ‘ace 


oe otane by ‘The Hooghing & ‘Whsmpos Dx : i Hong 
1” pacvie, 192 Tongs alin 6 Ga) Depth: 17m), CELE, 2000, ce ety ly aie 
enbmarsiblo le and contri pumps, y Wirele ane al yag' 


Pleasé dddress' nara to the! @hieé thavatfer:/ 
age : INS | Saks by bison eet noo, R. = DYEE.. BB, MINA. Kowioox Done, Horak : 


Pat 


t 
t 
ty. 
a 
i] 


ce 


" > sate OR ee . ; ae 


cHR 


&: 10 _ 


e 


SHIPPING NEWS 


_ ABRIVALS. . 


Pia ¥ 
u ‘September’ DN 
* tembien, Danish str.,: 9,908. tons, Onpe, 
Harden, from: New York, with a 
. general cargo,—Robert Dollar & Co 
oF Ee September ond. . 
“Untilochua, British sty,, 5,705 tons, Capt. 
W. MecHutchon, from Shanghai, with 
a general cargo. -B. & S. 
Yegien, ‘Gertian atr.,” 9,532 tons, 
‘apt. A. Portzelins, Toa Singapore, 
with a.genrral cargo. .—Ruter’ Brockel- 
‘mann & Co. a 
CAIRU,’ British str., from Canton. 
Nairiny, British atr,, 2,697 tons, Capt, J. 


HOME VIA GANADA __ 


ar Hongkong to England 
oie Shang Nagasaki, Kobe, Yokohams, Vancouver, Montreal a Quebee., 


Cart 


Prom ee 
Bougteng ‘Fanconreer canta Poel 


Empress Asta ‘Gop. 6: Sept. 34] Empress ScotIand Sept. 29 Oct 4 


_ Chalmers, from Swatew. —Kuen Sang. » EmpresaCanada Sept. 22 Oct. 8) EmpresasFrance Oct. 13 Oct. 19 
Dungebingy British str., 1,173 tonn, ane "“GmpressRuasia Oct & Oct. 22). Empress Scotland Oct 27 Nov, 2 
are tce ey Empress Asia Nov. 2% Nov. 19 . Empress Scotland Nov, 2% Nov, 30 
& Co. ; Empresa Canada Nor. 17 Des 3 Empress France Dec. 9 Deo, t8 
a | September ard. Empress Russla | Nov. 29 saa 17 Empress Scotland Dec. 23° Dec. 29- 
‘Atzaun Maru Va. 25, Ese str., S85 " ‘ h 
tons, Capt. C. Kawamoto, from. "Koe- Pe trsed Atlantis “every ‘tow days to Liverpool > 


lung, with \& cargo ot coal,—Suzuki twerp- Cherbourg and Hambarg, 


, tom, 
- Alument at Gs Ste steamers held ez9q and through waka issued. 


& Co ' 
* tnatina, “British: atr,, 3,150 tons, Capt. “ " Early reservation necessary, _— 
Cc. H. Hawki, from Tarakan, with Three 7 wabontivéntal Traics «Daily, 
2 general car Ko. —Asintic eS Btandard Sleeping Oars, Compartments & Drawing Rooms. - SP 2 
OO, ee " : 
ee Maru, Jopanese wt, 4,747 tone, - Canadian Pacific Hotels at Victoria, Varconrer,-in . tha Rockiee, Calgary, 
“Cant S$. Takeda, from SPisreaere " Winnipeg, Montreal and Quebeo, 


with a general cargo.—N.Y. 

Cochinchine, French str., 1,097 tons, Capt. 
P: . Morganti, from Haiphong, with 
a general cargo.—Kai Yue. 

“Muichaw, ia? atr., 1222 tons, Capt. 
Jo°S. de Wolf, from Swatow, with a 
general cargo—B,” & OS. 

Auscma, British str, 2,945 tons 

- 4), R. Metcalfe, from Rotts ¢ 
Singapore, with a generk. 
Bank Line, - 7 

Kojnn Maru, Japanese str, from Canton, 

Lee Sung, British str., 072 tons; Capt. T. 

Croft, from Hoihow, with a general . 

; tenvgo—J. M. & Co. * ; ” 

0 _Dnahan Maru, Japanese’ str, from ‘Canton} 

Pat roel us, British .sty., 6,10 tons, ‘Capt. 
G Clark. from: hanghai with a 
Ke neral carge.—B, 
= Pant Leeat, Franch “tre, 
Rassor, ‘from Shanti, 
general cargo.—M.M. 
Yoyo arate Tuputiese - atr., 


“CANADIAN PACIFIC ‘THROUGHOUT . 


Passenger Department: *. 
Freight and Expteat”~ 


Tol, 758. 


Cables, GACANPAG, © |” 
Mel, 42, 


Oables: NAUTILUS. 


‘Capt. 
m nud 


‘THE PATHWAY OF THE SUN. 
ee 4 
ogREDUCED FARE TO EUROPE, 
- Rint lai ee no class steamerson the Atlantic. 
VIA eHANGHAD. THE: INLAN. 
STEAMERS 


HONGKONG zo. SAN I PRAN 


Se ment: Capt CIs 
'D- SEA, oes AND “HONOLULU. 
LEAVE Hi NG. 


with cafe ve 


9,279 tons, 


Capt..J, Mikami, from ee with w 
: : _eargo——M. B.K. hataiety t 
o Chili tr, 6& tons, Capt. 
i Tan Om Ghiton er, ‘Hoibow, with a HONGKON Bxs) VALPALATEO. » 
"| 1 general enrgo.—Yaui’ Woo: ee VIA JAPAN, HONOLULU, HILO, SAN FRANCISCO, 
 Yeisaus Mare, Japanee*itr:, “336 tons, | ' SAN PEDRO, MANZANILLO, BALLOA, 
ao CALTAO, MOLLENDO, AFRICA: AND IQUIQUE. 


Capt. K.. Funakoshi, from. Keehn 


wit a cargo of coal—M Tuence by Trass-, raxpeax Boot to Buenos Aynes, - 


TONS LEAVE HONGKONG 
hye Ss “ roscos B cosaestet + ecseee @ a re Sth. 
. ne CLEARANOES: sodone18,700 see Qetober 20th. 


BETYO MABU es. coe, svcoeve-14,000- 04. w.. December 4th. 
RARUYO™ MARU .... 18,500 -soeedanuary 15th, 


JAPAN-HON( GRONG-JAVA SERVICE. 


OSAKA, KOBE, Oi, DAIREN, HONGKONG, BATAVIA, 
-SAMABANG AND SOURABAYA, 


September ist. 7 
Tydva Naor for Batao Besar, a 
AagingJfor Amoy. 

Septemlier and. 


saizaa Morru Nee 3, for Canton: ; DESTINATION (LEAVE HONGKONG 
“Ghinghing, for Cantois PERSIA ‘A MARU AT Thine Samarang é& Sourabaya), ......... September 10th, 
City of Cilaaguw, for Singapare. , NEWS FORE LINE. (eat only) 
«| Bichon, for Canton, ,° TA JAVA AN. WEL. 


Kingov, tor Hoihow, 
Soochow, for Shanghai.. 
 Saphre Rickmers, for Kobes 
° Puyen Mara, for Takuo, 
. Victorle; for Sandakan, 
eA Septanber yrd. 
Aizawa Maru No, 2, for Canton. 
Autilochus, for Manila; 
wadtling Maru; for Keeling, 
wa Jtaru, for Kobo, 
a2 I Leyivn, for Shanghai. 
Cheongehing, for Canton, 
Chibi, for Hongay. Pane 
: “Hunhihi JMarn, for Keelung. : 
#oaiten, for Hothow. 
“ Japon, for Singapore, 
Kira ngtah, ‘for Canton. 
 Lingshan, for Canton, 
Patroctua, for. Singapore, 
> Laut Locitt,: for Saigon. 
» Sanjin . Maru, for ‘Honyay. 
eh Siriiia, for Shanghai. , : ‘ 
» Fanon, for Canton, . 
eee ae isu) Maru, for Canton, 


‘PASSENGERS. cle 
thn” “ARIELVALS, f 
Per SLM. wa Parl Lrent, “from Japan 
ports and Shanghai, on September-3rd:— 
<3tr. and Mrs, Bellon, Mr. Chapt, Mr. 
Griffon, Mr. O. Bloch, Mr. aud “Mra. P. 
8, Tissot Dupont, Mrs, T. Lagrange, Mr. 
Bcurgoing, Mro-and Mrs, J, Paaguier, 
a ae K. Crone, N Waanieck, 


STEAMER LEAVE HON hy 
EIYO MAB’ re 
For full glee regarding ee hse sans. 


Ap; 
Meas as at Canton: * 
Mesins, T. E. GRIFFITH. 


Tamustita Steamship & ‘Mining Go, Utd 


—— oo et-a 
eae Owners; Shipping & Marine Insurance: ‘Soke 
Coalmine Owners, General Coal Merchant. . 
eee ee : 
REGULAR FREIFHT 3% PAGENSSER _BERVIOE: - 


“KEELUNG, HONGKONG. & HATPHONG, ” 
Barua wuom Honaxons, ~ 
“Bor HAIPHONG vis Hoihow & Pakhoi 
us, “NANYO-MABU No.1" os wonor cake 6th ligt: : 
For KEELUNG via Swatow & Amoy - 
"as, “TATKWA MARU*®, 4. «0D oF abort ath Sep. 
ae . For bats aaa please apply tom, 


» 


Mra id a i . & MPTARAI, | 
“gueyl airy : pts din] * Noa] ‘Bosh ‘Strand, West . Z Foe Se ings, 
ueylar, i Patton, 0°83 2) : op, g's B 
Miss. Mack rown, Ming Grosvenor, Me » et I. Contral Ho, 155. . a ‘ Tel, Central 4 


No. 140, - 
-and Mrs, Proust, Mr. P.B Mayben, Misa} ” — ; 
“E. Geary, Mr. Thomms, © Mr, R.. P, 
Moujay, Miss P. Rinney, Miss- 
? jen, Misa V. Mawe, mates and. 
» Demange. p 


; Sacitia, on September’: 
he Denn and Mrs. f. 


on § sepleraber 
Lr. Haim, 
ire, Ronzet, 


petional: ‘LONBON. COPENHAGEN and. other 


onber; “Me vig 
Misi G _ SCANDINAVIAN PORTS, : 


Mr, Lipowaky, Miss Que; 
— dard, — i es, Chas, : Rose, »-Mi 
a) ¥ 


5] leave faces be bound : 
On OTs q 

_isth. November, jaa 

12th December, cil 


~ oped on" 


or about 


ca 10th ‘October. | 
oe -1 41 November. 


‘Pei 
oy Bontetaben 15 
- H. Bleccher, Mr. Bl. 
: 3 


» Custodio, Mr. 


le W. B. "Rekart, Mr. K. 7 de ee BUD December _ 36th January, 1924 

Murphy, Mr. " Bubject 19 "change without, notice. ya 
‘Bla skenship ; and infant, Mr, ; ae Tithe bib : 
4 ‘Campos, Mrs. Ye—B,: Denny’ Mt. T. : en a ‘apply to:— ° Si ote 


* Fabiana, Mr. LaF ‘Henuegad: My. 
” ‘Mav'romatis, tt ‘EB. Wo Marquart, : 

‘D,. Maynard, Mr. A. As Parker ‘and fr : 
° weveral Cibceie Reena : ye 
mas ee 


HONGKONG DAILY PRESS,” sens SEPIEMBER * am, 


) ‘THROUGHOUT. 


Le 


peersceceorereeterseascoes sensors revsesss seaseebbout September 24th. : 


‘SYDNEY & ME “ROURNE vis ‘Manila: . 


a ay = Ff ee 5 : 
‘ . . Ss) 


TC) 


PACIFIC MAIL 


STEAMSHIP COMPANY 
MANAGING AGENTS UNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD. 


_ FRAN S-PACIFIC SERVICE» 


FAST iad AMERICAN' STEAMERS TO 


SAN “FRANCISCO — . 


SHANGHAL, KOBE YOKOHAMA” = -BONOLULU: 
_ “PRESIDENT LINCOLN” a ce re aie ie Sept ith. 


nou 


pari i 
‘gaiting ‘and Fares subject to Change Without Notice. 


Se 
Low. FARES TO. EUROPE 


“LOCAL EQUIVALENT. OF “ 


“£120 - “£112 | $110 | 


n FIRST CLASS . ©ABIN CLASS , SECOND CLASS : 
“ON ATLANTIC:| = ON. ATLANTIC. 
WITH STOP OVER PRIVILEGES AT TORTS, OF CALL AND 
POINTS IN UNITED STATES, a 


a: VISIT * eoxseertsa win Axy “Visit 

-| SAN FRANCISCO ‘pigect TRaxs-contix- | ‘YOSEMITE - 

,{ LOS ANGELES ~ : : . |” 1 GRAND CANYON: 

: PH eed ENTAL -RAILWAY AXD FEATHER RIVER . 
PE cmevoin | ERASE ae 


slow 


_ _HONGKONG—MANILA 


“PRESIDENT LINCOLN” 


‘HONGKONG— “CALCUTTA 


. FREIGHT. ‘ONLY 
- CALCUTTA via SINGAPORE, PENANG & RANQGOO™, 


‘$.3. “LAKE GITANO” eee ee ee 


Sept. sth’ 


Sept. 4th, at.5 p.m. 


For Fall Information reg: arding Rates, Space, etc, eae G je: 


"PAGING tb crete co. 
, st "Loon, UXEN "3 UILDING, Hovsxoxa, HS 
Tel. Central 141. Canton Agents: 


"Cable Address: 
: » 338%,"  :HOLYOAK, MASSEY & co. ‘LYD.. 


“.  SAULINGS SUBJECT TO aLTasaTlun.. 


VIOTORIA, SEATTLE.& VANOOUVER via'Shanghai, Japan ports 


Through Bills of Lading issned to all Overland common Points in U.8.A. and Canada. 
. Through passage rates to Europe vis Amorics G.$405, G3420, G.8440, 

’ SHIDYUOEA MARU ws SC aiaiertied Wedneeday, 5th Sept, atl am 

: : Monday, : 

 MABSRILLES, LONDON & ANTWERP via nogapore, ° ko. 
FUSHIMI MARU |: wwe ase! Sue, Wednesday, 12th Sept, at tt an 
MISHIMA MARU . Wednesday, 26th Sept, at 11 a.m. 


HAMBURG vis, i’ NUON HOTHBEDAM M 

. ol to- * 

LIVERPOOL via HABSEILUBS & TALENOLA.. 
LYONS MARU “End of Sept. yor beginning Oct. 


. TANGO MELE ot : ean vue’ Wednesday, 18th Sept., at 11 am, 
. YOSHIN ieee Welzesday, 17th Oct, at, am 
-NEW YORE & ROBTON. via, “paialia. 


TOBA MARU we’ ee Monday," lat. Oct * —- 


‘BUBNOS A(BES via Singapore, Durban & Oave Town. . ey 


KANAGAWA MARU oe eee + ” eae End Oct. or beginning Nov.) A 
‘BOMBAY -vis--  Bingapors, aad, Colombe. ° : 
OSAKA MABD =... we) we ‘Monday, 


eee Tharsday, 27th Sept.’ 


“CALCUTTA wa singapore, ‘foie & Rangoon. Se as 


hereon MARU .... “ = Tuesdsy, - 4thSept.. 
GATO ‘MARG os ‘Wednesday, 12th Bett : " 
NAGABAKI,— KOLE "& "YOROHAMA. 
YOSHINO MARU. a, Thursday, 13th Sept. : 


SBAN@HAL, ona & -YOROHAMA 
. NAGANO MARU (Shanghoi & Kobe) wee ! ow T ° 
TACELSHI 8160 (Kobe istehams)s bie Mote 
KITANO MARG i 


i0th Sept 
- Wedaeeday, 12th Sept, 


|" Bop-further information worl [oa ‘NIPPON. YUSEN K AISH A 


“Fespbona Central Ro. 292, 293 & 2422. 


: Spy sara to 1,500°Fons Ne. AND LAND ENGINEERS 
: val Bndar Pag, ° Tankers, Light-dreft ‘and River Steanters 
: a, Oder sidins Loge ria rraae i 


“doth Sept. -! ee 


- 6th Sept. ae 


Hoxgk Observatory, September 3rd. 
, revions On Daten pate 


Day at ad 
at Ppa | Bam.} 2 pm, 
Barometer = om | 2876 29.75 | 39.73 
Temperature rn 87 31 88 
a 34 62 a2 |, 69 
Wind Dire Mon | SW | SW 8: ere 
‘| 4! | Force ., 40 Qe, a7, 
Weather. = c 0 ro : 
Rain we | O.0L + 9,00 0,00 ate 


: : i? 
6 enna 


SHIPPING MO MOVEMENTS. 


The TKK... aaroN teri: ere sniled LS: 
from Dairen on the tat inst, edd Shang- ; 
hai, aud will be dne at thie pert an the 
Bth_ inst, - 

Thess Befleraphie (Blow Funnel lino}s 
from Liverpool, left Singapore on the 2nd - 
inst, for this port, and is due here on the 
prox, | i 

Thess Drumed (Blue Funnel-stine), 
arrived at Boston on the Ist inst , 
be PL & OL Colne Anamala left 
Singapers for this port‘on tho [xt inst., 
at tym. with the outward English mils, 
and. is due here on the ath inst, (This, 
day) at about 7.a.m. . 


VESSELS EXPECTED.” 


angers (ALM.), due Sept, 25th. 
Rellerophon iiine ‘Funnel), due Sept. 7th. 
Benclruch (Bon Line), due Sept. goth. 
Benledi (Ben Line), due Sept. 10th. 
tinrdidlere (MLM,), dua September 21th. 
Blue Funnel), due Sept. 12th." 
f Canada, due September 10th.’ 
ra (Blue Funnel), due to-day, 
Phemius (Blue Funnel), due ‘Sop 19th. * 
President. Madisom  (Admigat Oriental), 
‘due./Sept, 8th. 
Sibert Maru, due Se 
Suwe Meru (N.Y. 


timber 6thy | ; 
m due par “ath, som, 


WEATHER REPORT. 
: wen 

September 3rd at 1811—Pressuro has 
ducreased moderately at. hanghai and alight- 
ly from the Visayas to Guam:" also aver 
Formoss and central Indo-China, It is 
early stationary from Hongkong'to Hai- 
P 


A dapression lies to the perth of Bbaagias 
nod « typboon ‘about 400 milea N.W., 
Guam, moving N.N.W. apparently. . 

Hongkong rainfall for the 24 hours ending 
‘at 10a.m.,,3rd September, hag inch, Total - 
ance January Ist, 78.62 ingbes, against. an 
Tee locnean fer tos W tener Siding 

(o} 10 e a 
noon, 4th peep is aa: ‘follows:— 
» Fouacasr 


Foiooss Channel ved BW. winds, mod- 
: erate; fair, 
Hongkong to Gap Bock | P ‘ ‘ 
0. 
Sonth coast, ot China between | 
Hongkong and Lamocks, do., 
Months ot Chins xewaen} da. 


Hongkongand Aainan Ju 


HONGKONG MBTEOROLUGIOAL" 
REGISTER. 


teeta creemeellicecinieea a 
Highest open-air Temperature on 2nd... 67 
== bse "Temperature on ird sl 


wt 


HONGEONG. TIDE TABLE - 


ONGEONG "passe, om 


—ELLERMAN LIE" | 


(BLLERM AN & BUCKNALL 58 ao.) 


z UNITED KINGDOM & ‘CONTINENT aERViog, 


OUTWABDS. 


“HOME 


PASSAGE | ‘RATES TO LONDON. 


oouye Fe lat Class £92.—tnd Class 262, 
: ar ae eeeme an ae a —snd Claas £58, 


“ov Cass Steamers 
“*.B—" C" Cle Steamers comprise shone of of be cargettrpetwhiehDhae;iocinmodation forte few paasen gore 


bat do nob carry Doctar or Stews! 


ae oo 


oy 


we eee 


+ one - 


” gabject be: chasse vethont noleet * 
For further pesticnlars apply 0 ree 


erage yaaits SI 8D 


{THE BANE . 
(Tel. Central a 


a 


HOLYOAK, MASSEY & CO, LTD, OANTON. 


BOSTON. AND. NEW YORE 


ne Joint flervice -ef the 
“BLUE” FUNNEL" DINE” 
CORAR | ‘BB, OO. LID, am pee MOTUAL &H, co. oa 


'. AMERICAN, ‘& MANCHURIAN : LINE 
(SLLEEMAS & BUCKNALL BB. 00. &TD) 


. iH 


y 


cierto Hongkong. 


“ repens 


* vee 5 ee via 8uez Canal wn 
te Asan. We iva Baez Canal...” aw 15th Bept 
ey " OLITY ‘OF BAGDAD 7 eee Vin Bez Canal... wa | THUD Sept. . 
. as. “PERSEUS” oe = emi Suez Canal i = ‘Sth Oct 


Breamera proceed via Saar Canal or Panema Canal at Cwaert’ option, 
Bubject to change without notice 
ter trolgtit and particulars apply to- : 
’ BUTTERFIELD & SWIRE om THE BANE LINE, uD, “aONGKONG. 
‘ {sm BWIRE & toms, ETD.) 
’ HONGEONG amp CANTON. 


“MESSAGERI ES 


y FOLYOAR, MABSEY & CO, LTD. cAsTOR, 


MARITIMES WM. : 
wae ® - 


a 


BEBVIOES CONTRACTUELS - 


G i : B 
Wall beamiare land Beilin for 
: ' Shai, and Japan. 


a 2 


eg, 


“ANDRE LUBON 


re ee ae 
A OIELERE vee tt 10th Aug. 11th aes 
ANGEBS. ote oes 24th Aug. 25th Sept. 
“ QBILI at -7th Sept. Oth Oct. Tath Nov. 
_ PORTHOS Same wee Pat Sept, 23rd Oct. P 26:1, Nov. 


me! 


i 
RATES OF. PASSAGE MONEY TO MARSEILLES, 
(nolnding lable Wine. ana Free Doctor's Attendance). . 

‘Int Clags,.... ts 0, 5. Os. Od. 1 B Crass {eeron$ oe 
Sn | corns £ 68,08, 0d | Brances 

Throagh: Tickets to London and Leading Towns ‘af Ensope. 
Accommodation reserved in the Trains at Marseilles} 
LIGNE... COMMBROIALES (Careo Boat,) 


“LECOCQ” loading for HAVBE, ANTWEEP & DUNKIRK, about end: | 
d' may eventually cail at Valence, Alger, Carablanca, Bordeaux, 
"Rotterdam, (if sufficient inducement offérs).. : 
‘Also through Bi sding issued to HELSINFORS, REVAL and AIGA. 
> Bailings subject to alteration without notice, 


11 Particulars apply to:— ho 
For for Piten MESSAGERIES, MARITIMES CO,: 
“depbene: Osatral ‘740, . 8, Quam’s Bonar, 
. ie  QONSIGNATION—TEANSIT—REPRESENTATION, f : 


Os, Ga, 


oe 3. On. Gd. 


Grnawans- 


4 


aa. OP. 


Sept. ani 


" 


ee 
“ pOUGLAS- STEAMSHIP CO., LYD.} 


gONGRONG AND SOUTH. HINA coART. PORT: BBAYIOB, ; 
——— 
“RE BERVIOE ot Fis, High Cnt Ont, Shanes bavias seed 


s, ‘ ora and Rexelmt oxrng 
FOR . 
‘SWaATOW, AMOY. Ge » FOOCHOW. os 
é AND ERTURR: 
ee ; eet = beenads « Bence £2 
BAIHONG on Caps. W. 0, Passmore | Tuesday, 4th Sept. ab lpm 
BA{FOONG * ..}. apt. Ellis Walker | Sunday, 9 5 at 10 
| * Oat 8. Thpson| } lane nt Sera * 


‘ALONG .. 


na 


| | 22:Des Vorux Roads Central, HONGKONG. 


an Sone 
‘] JAPAN | 


y Ini, O 


CHINA NAVIGATION CO. 


SAEINGS 2 


, LED, 


WATOW & BANGKOK eas “RIANGSU", 
| aR PeNittoas. = REE = 
HANGHAT “A “SUNNING" 
SWATOW & ORR GH. HOW 
ANGHAT &TSINGTAO.__.. “SHANTUNG" % 
HOLHOW, PAKAOL & Beuradta - Bie ~ SBuaNTg " 
SWATOW & SHANGHAI |. wm. mm “ 


SWATOW rt BINGACORE. th’. Sept," 4 p.m 


+ wee wee 


; NGY ws On 
: "EWANGCHOW" On ith 


eo? a (COMPANIES Incorporated’ In ‘ENGLAND). BP Sees SWATOW & BANGEOE ww» Aug. 4pim. 
SHANGHAL LINE: = — Excellent Baloon . scoommodation amidships, witb. 
MAIL AND PASSENGER SERVICES). soit hel “Unk crgunte, telsccgracue a for. 


Grrarrs, Java, Buama, O Ispia, Pusan Gout. Wase.. ica 
° i Tuesdays (vis Amo: via. Swatow) and Baturdays (direct: extending” to’ 
varus, East &. ‘Bours AYBICA, AUPTRALAStA, NCLUDING Topedaye. (ia Amer) Tomy Cea) Lading to a angie a HerarGhower 
IRuew Zuatawp & Quaxystax> Porrs, Rep 8m, Passongera for for Shanghai do not require to tranship ai ie ee 
: . Honrorz, Exa: : BAN K. — pri egg lsgcng Tucadaye to 
Parts Bivona _______ | pianos wai wntngirte alan SE 
an om 
PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL FORTNIGHTLY [0° yo Nicvctumresse— RUTTEREIELD & SWIEB. = 
: , DIRECT ROYAL MAIL. STREAMERS. TD ppeapsoun ©: “soar ETD te 
7 “(Under Contract: with’ *H, wumuouE Canraat 33. . Fisker tnsgiaalel 1 gna 
: nder_ Centract ‘wit M, .Gevernment.).. - Reais CARGU # FASSAGEOAN BE ISSUED AT THX OFFICE OF BUTTERRTELD £8 TRE ty Aon ay 
- BB Ve Ton | Pontes . ‘| Dssttuation ia 
Lt : MN aes) {atowd) : E tale 
MACEDONIA” fer PebSept No ight Beare Sr Rony worp- : 
: : ‘UBD: O10 im bay. ae 
Bea. | Be RRSae Semantics tae AUSTRALIAN. ORIENTAL LINE. 
02 y., Mars-Gib.,.L'don. OtPe : 
“SOUDAN. ' _ . | 6i606. | izth Oct. “~ |Stpore,, Penang, Colombo-& B’bay. ' ‘HONGKONG “TOR:PHILIPPINES Al AUSTRALIAN PORTS, 
“KARMALA.” a 9,088 19th Oct. _ |Mars., Gib. L rn & Antwerp. ‘ 
cee : on Sad Nor : Bboy. M are Gib Ue. en erp Samuwe Boascr t8 Atemasian: , ‘ 
; . BE  Gib., ter . os 
“SICILIA” S813 yath Nor, Ra Oe ee noabos ‘Bombay Stanmer | Ast, Boaghong trem Australia Ae Jor Masts. i F 
_ ee ey 2 aeeal aie a Mare. Gih., ss & Antworp. |. _———e  Le ee ; 
“RALYAN ' siost * | Sth Nor .«OHANGSHA” oon ee - eg " 
FRR BE | RRS feengemneiaio a 
/MRAISAR-LHIND™ | 2, 430. | .28th Dee [pha Aiea ibn bk were 1 ‘of “Tig Diane fa ih Ralnegng Mary, cong» penn ay 4 . 
: ‘ 1924 — throughout and Electric Fans in the State-Rooms. A duly geeiea Doctor lis « a on 
toca | Sh [ARERR SAPO een 2 Tn : 
‘“ ;: rrogy |. 85th Jad ots LE A . BUTTERFIELD & 
- “FASHGAR Eats ath Feb Neary do. ° : oa 0. 86, (Gon Evin « Bows, Lp) Aga, p 
wHOREA® 10,911 gond Feb." - doe 5 8 — . 
ALA” " .) 5 9th March do. 
“ WALDERA" , 15,993 2lst March © do." 
“DELTA” om 4th April - | « as 
- “CHINA”. “18th April 


BRITISH | INDIA - - APCAR SATeines 


STRUTHERS: & BARRY LY. 


ayant, cee , la et {stagenore, Pevang de Calntia, i _ OPERATING: US... GOVERNMENT 5 
‘Sonth) 
“EASTERN _& AUSTRALIAN SAILINGS. Got) ° "EXPRESS FREIGHT, \SERVICE,. 
FURA" 6,070 -| Sth Oct. Tle Baba, grdney tf -- gree 
ST ALBANS* $00, || Sei Sor. |L Mabou. ritl]- "79 198 ANGELES AND SAN FRANCISCO 
—{} (FROM HONGKONG BY DIRECT BOUTE.' 
Frequent ecancotions from Anstralis with the fellow! eras TSSB, “West Chopaka” a Dts Bongkong:. th Bep 
The 0; BS. Oo.’s Bteamers {othe United Elagdom via Py Sea i neces |} 15th Sere 38 
The P. & O, Royal Mail Bteamers te London via Sues Cantl {Ban F. ate, TEER, . ™ Wost, Cermons” ey ” wee tes tee oe 30th Sei : 
Tho P, & O, Branch Service of Bleimsrs to London vis the Ospe- ° Leave Hi Lt On 
Fhe F&O, Branch Service of Buvatenperstor Koxthampicn aad Londep vis Pansme Gane |} “chRGO ACCEPTED. FOR ‘TRANSMIPMENT AT BAN FRANCIBCUTTO WEERL? ; 
TEINGE POE ATLANTIO SEABOAED PORTS THEO 
SAILING* TO: ‘SHANGBAL & JAPAN. » SEEDING tssUED oa AD EBLABID BO aaa Mee 
2 STAKADAT 8. A ath Moji & Kobe.’ - - 
i MEARMADA". aa | eee ape Bieaghak Moji& Robe: “| “To MANILA AND P..I. PORTS, 
“ARAFURA”. 6,000 Uth Sept. —_.| Moji, Rake & Vorobams, ° - Osi 8.3, oe ‘West Carmons” wav coe ery owe, coe Dus Hongkong. 11th: Se; , 
““NELLORE” * 6,853 - | 220d Sept. seca, Mel Kobe &okobams, " Leave Hongkong: 12th sept 
“BOUDAN * 803 | 89th Sept, -_ Shanghai. ‘THROUGH BILLS- OF LADING ISSUED TO ALL PORTS Not Seavey,” 


GIT Gola a opprinala ond fubjec 19 lrsion ec! olin, 
WIRELESS’ TELEGRAPHY FITTED ON ALL’ STEAMERS. . 
: gt for tee lai oon mast defray their own Hotel expenses'at Bingapore while await- 


on earrying 
First Faloon P by B.IB.N. Company's Steam i Bingo 
fet elon Parnes may axel by Pears Sine TO &O. Tickets 


TO MANILA ASD: BINGAPORB, 


wast. “ Wost Cactus” arn ae i) pb» ve Hosein 99th Sept. 
= Hongkong. loth Sept. 


; Yor You Iptomx: 2108 arnt rr 
STRUEHEES AND BABRY,. 


: Ga, and Calcutia or Singapore AEN of the 
"aie to Colombo,’ 


Ht Coking ave Stied with Electric Fans. of charge... 
by sp hams es In Floor, Quoen’s B ns 
Parcela Measuring not more than aha ft x xe ft. 21 wil be received sttieCompsagn a ‘ter P pe Oe 5 Ups Boe 


Office ‘up to Noow on the day. 
: For Furtter, oe ACE 


MACK] 


Handbooks, ets., apply. to—- 


o salig. 
NNON. “MACK EN BNZIE. & eer 


JAPAN.O eee PHILIPPINES. . 
INDO.CHINASTRAITS « JAVA. . : 


KA, HEYUL, Ree, Agent 


—" 


PRIN CF LINE PAR EAST. SERVICE 


» Reguisr Bailings ‘to . Boston, "andior Now ‘York. byt. fast: 
' prelght, steamers. | aes 


~ nostow twos |[DODWELL & 005 LIMITED] 
~NEW YORK - ‘NEW “YORK. BERTH | : 


wey 


“Fer BOSTON. & NMW: one aru 
us, '* BOWES: CASTLE : = areca or about 13th Bop, j 


AxING OA caiiao ON THROUGH BIELS O¥ LADINO. 
z Lavan, BLACK BEA & DANUBE oa oe 


fie eat meee ap soompi ‘tr this 


farited wer 


*toity 38th Sept,” 


: ‘Oe 
#33 ‘Siena th Sept. = 
: ao cH uaeap, ociien |t 
* Fri 21st seep 
a Japan  Prtefian Hraclaco— bisen 
Beginning of Rept} 
en izth Boph 2 
it aocommoriar 


: Spang iia 
~~ foe ca ond ite % 


ye oasy 


7. MAB 
P TS Hote, Yokohama vis ay a 


1 ileal sours ee AED Y Thao secon 


pear PERT above’ Lines épply reg, Ga 


pODW HEL fu Soe Sais: 


. 2: 8watow, Amoy aad Foochow 


POST OFFICH :-NOTIOR =. 


REGISTERED and PAROBL MALLS sre closed 15 minates: 
earlisg than the tima “given below. ualess otherwise stated, and _ 
where atsils are advertised to tloss.at or before 9 s.m, registered, 
"and Paroal mails are‘alosed at 5pm. on the’ peevioas dsy. . 


“INWARD MAILS. 5 0S 


aio et via Bria 7th Ae Bon : 

Basted sa ee 

, Boro w via Sots (Lottora & Papers, Lon-y! i 
doa ib. Avguat, and Parcele, Ist bf Kurmale .. 

VRE Sepa and Shanghai | a Pea. Lincola . 

USA, Oawapa, Jaan ann Shamguar Pres. Madison . 

*Bowmay we Sado Maru 


ssh’ Sept: 
&th ‘Seps. 
. Tath Sept. 


ase eon vee ae vast 


OUTWARD MAILS, — 


D Private, 30 da; 
| Ox Yoror amc eage demand - 


“4 Qs Satcon,—On demand 
‘1 On Banokok.—On demand 


4 


" COMMERGTAL, 
OPENING QUC QUOTATIONS, 
“andl September, 1923 


ed Lospoy.— 
Tolege ‘aphic Transfer” ae eee! S 
Bill,on demand... = ate vis: 
~ Bank Bills, st 30 ht - 

. Bank Bills’ at 4 months’, aight’ 13} 
Credits, at 4 mont 9’ wight ;Af8 hone 
Documentary Bill is, 4 months’ 

h fd aa 


= “p19 
oe 


aoe 


Bills, on demand .: 
‘Credits, 4 months’ sight” 
Ox New Yorr.— 
Bank Bills, on demand .. 
: credits at 30 days’ sight , 
On Boxmay.nr 
“Polepraphiie Transfer w. 
Bulls, on demand... 
Ox Paegathie T ‘ : 
legraphic Transfer... - 
Bank Bills ond demand : 
‘On Swancear— ” 
' Bank Bills ab sight 
sight 


Litre in ‘wow —_— “sy Hy 


Ox Manina.—On demand 
Ow Sryoarore—On demand 
Os Batavta.—-On demand ... 
Ox Hareson.—On demand 


wes 


Sovarzicn, Bonk’s Buying rate | 


“| Goro Lray, 100 fine, por tael 


Carl Legien 
vo] Alas Mare 
| Hatten . 

Kasana we 


‘Tuesday, 4tb, “9,00 (x 
tee 9.00 4m 


‘10,004 a 
16.00 aw 


“Shanghai we es ose 
* Formosa aud Dairon see 

*Holhow and Haiphong 

s@banghai. 


: i *Ban ko! e and Europe: vis | 
laa? eh ‘arscilles, Lets Oct, 
“Bwatow, Amoy and Foochow... 

“Swatow aod Bangkok a - 
Shanghai... “ws - 

Amoy . 


95am 


7 | Registration 
Letters 10.304 u 


Patroclu 2° 


‘Haiphong... =» aT rr a vichang Wednesday Sth, 800 ax 

‘loihow .. és ie 10,30 4. 

' Baten Amey and Formosa... } , , 11,004 
Straits toe ew ate ' Noon 

2.30PM 

: ___.. 500 rx 


“Eth, 5.00 Px , 


Saigo : 
ae “sad Bangkok | Chun Bang 


' Bhan in Jay 
Gs 1 aa South Armprica 
‘EUROPE via VANCOUVER, BC—, 
due Vaticouver, 24th Sept... ae 

‘Hoihow, Pakhoi add E Haiphong = tod 

poe Avene Haiphhong -_ 7m 

3 Ganda, BA. 

Sia. thon ith ~ America,” -& 
*ZUROPE via VICTORIA, BO, 
—dae Victoria, B.C, 26th Sept, a. 
Ship sails 7th inst 1 10 am. os 


ack Swatow Joking’. 
‘Straits, riasasi, ‘Caplan sin Ly : 


Ewepr.of Asis 42 


Yunnan. oo 


Pres. Grant 


“iy, 7th, 10.304 Mw 

Parcels . Noon, 

\ Registration 5.00P u 
Letters‘... 


Mecaionia, wees 
6.00P Mw 


ner BOROBE cer mda | 
ae Marseilles, ‘6th Oct.—Bhip | f 
saila at midnight, 7th ith Sept, . ee sg aee! . : Se ie wv, 
1. Bunday,, 9th, 9.00am. 
+» Monday, 10th,’ 3.307 M 


ie pana 
vee Tues tay, 11th, -Noon 
: rs SS 


Baijhong te ; 
“Manila «| Pres, Madison 
“Ssgwwatow, Amoy snd Foochow Baichitg» a 
oe 
“Oorrespondencs bearing vessel's name only, 


wee 


a 
oon tes tee tee 


aa 


THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE 


danuige AND “Fast. FREIGHT ‘AND 


_ PASSENGER. SERVICES 
N SHRV 
LO DON SH ICE 


ott P TROOLUS" ms Ama BEPr. Marseilles, London ‘& Rotterdam 
-“LYCAON” - 18Tx Sgpr. London, Rotterdam & Hamburg.. 
“MENTOR* , 2608 Szpr. London, Rotterdam & Hamburg. —. 
a AGAPENOR” -9TB Oot. “London, Rotterdam & Dunkirk. 


LI VERPOOL SERVICH 
OR ‘VIA. RL) 
“KT, TEMPLAR”. 20TH Serr. Genoa, Marseilles, Liverpoolée(Hasgowr 
“«*PROMETHEUS" Ist Oor. ‘Marseilles; Havre, Livarosel & Giasgow.. 
» RHEXENOR” "10TH Oor. Genoa, Marseilles & Liverpool. 
rere NS 
PA a Kom SRE VICE 
via Komen amp OKGNAMA), LU 
“AC FILLES 12TH ‘Burt, 
st PHILOCTETES "967TH BEPr. 


aN BW py SERVICE. 

- (Via, Bons on Pamama). .. 
; *ANTILOOHUS”:  4tq Suet, 
aay ‘BELLEROPHON™ 157TH Sarr 


“} Victoria, ‘Seattle’ & Vancouvei ee 


via Suez and Boston: - 
_ via Suez and ‘Boston. : 
4 


1T% Atte EO rereeeaan 


Ban SILveEr, per oz 


“HONGKONG AND: SHANGHAT 
BANKING CORPORATION. 


Head Office Hc pet 
Sathoriond oo feces bee 
up 2 
Rescrve Fund: 


me van 


A as ree 


_ BIGMIFIED BY VEAR/ OF JERVICE 


THE 


LABEL. 


Has, BEEN A ‘DIRECTING sIGN 


TO 


DIZCRIMINATING ty MOKERY 


<i 


* -SONGEORG SAVINGS BANE. - SS 


THE MERCANTILE BANE oF DYDIA, 
LIMITED. 


Bank is i conducted 
& SHANGHAT 
TION. aleansy be 
obtained on sprite. 
INTER. 


iavallowet cn the 
Minimum Monthly Balances at 3} per. cent. 
er annum. 7 
; » For the . Hosexoxe @ Suanonis Buxore 
RPORA TION, 
AG. STEPHEN, A 


b sagkong, Mth November, 1922. 


Heap Orn 
16, “Greenchiareh Stree, Condon, Eo. 3. 


Authorised Capital. ose 
.. Subscribed Capi 


a4 


" QHARTERED. BANE or. 
" AUSTRALIA AND. 


Ixcossuxaze ar RoraL Cuanraa,’ 1853 
Heap Orn ae 


_TEDIA, 
A. 


Sow York” ‘Simla 
singapore 


; r reat 

Pai a Capital mas =." €3,000,000 . Kota Bhart't Port or Hoi sare) 
Reserve Funds, = aw, £3,800,000 Gale : 
Keere Liability of Proprietors a £2,000,000 


FOREIGN #XCHANGE and * ‘General 


-BONGKON @ BRANCH! 


tasiness transacted, 
“INTERERT allowed on’ Current Accounts 


to 2 por cent. per annum on Daily Balance. 


7 description of Braking and Bxehangé 


THE BANK OF EAST ASIA, 
ns LIMITED. = 
HEAD «OFFICE :— 
“No-I0, Des-Veeux Road C., 
HONGKONG.” 
Established 1919. ° 
- Authorised oe 
Paid-up eon 
- Reserve Fund 


’ DIRECTORS: 


, 500,000.00, 


Mr. Pose ‘Wai. Tixa, Chairman, .:. 


Mir. ea Shou 


ae Kwok, 


uF Ean i Nam, 


-Mr. Huynh Tai, |, 
. Myr. Kan Ying Po, 


Mr Ng Ne Changiok: 


‘, Chief Manager « c Mr, Kan Tong Ro,. 


Asst. Manager eo Mr i Tse Fong. 
‘BRANCHES: eA “AGENCIES: im - 
IN _NEW_Y¥ 


and on Fixed Deposits at rates that may be |? ; 
aaoertained 


on application. 
: : N.C, “WILSON; 
. “a F Cohtral : Mansger.« | 
Hongkong, May 8th 1982, ee 3 TS TASH os, 80 


, THE BANK‘ OF TAIWAN. 
‘ : LOMITED.. 
-BANQUE DE _WIHDO- OBIEE,.. i rata: 
ARIS. ." arwaxt' Geko. 
ae ee i _Tneorporated’ by Bpedial inprial 
‘Head’ Office: 2%, Boulevard Haussmann, | ° Charter, 1899, 


jee 


” Subscribed Caiitel, E's. 72,000;000.00 


Tt Paid-up er. nine 9,400,000.00:. 


ile 


mss Os ig be 
sere Loa rae ap iti 
corm ns. granted ‘on. Ore ecuri en! 

Hentan end fe spor d Fixed 


| Bese ve" Fund -, ra. 29, 087,253.04 


“Bociete Générale: tee 
“LONDON: The, Nationét: 


InN: -Provincial 
“, and Union Bank of aged aa 
. ergy National d' ite di 
Paris; ey cane Lyonnais. a a 
French- eee Banking Corpora- 
: Bon Guaranty -Tensty.. Go, of, New, 
Interest ‘aHowed on» Current’ 
and erate  acoording to 
ment. ° 


Every ‘description. of banking ‘add éx- 
change hresiness Pwr Z ; 
¢ i “LEBOUCG 


Continent, Russia, ‘Manctar: 
Japan, Te paaiae ‘Siam, mart 
pine ; Islands, Ji df 


: London Baniers:—The London Jolat Oty and Midland 
desert ft Bankin: 

rane, ace. Lone panied a Nz and, Exchange businiay 

“me'eot Chere snpom, oo Accounts Four 

cents per anu, an on Elxed Depostts at the 6 following | 


For rale 
Fee face fate of 4 pee cent, ber samara 
‘or 12 months at the rate of f per cent. per annum 

. .-* KAN TO) PO,.. 
: : Chief: Manager. .° 
Honsketig, Febjuary 26th, 3923." : (34, 


THE ‘YOKOHAMA ‘SPECIE. BANE, 


"Deposits: received ‘for fixed 
eaics to: be! ares on a Heaton 


$10,000,000.00 _ 
~_ 8,000,000,00 = 


7 Koon Chin; ‘Mr. Mok Ching Kong, 
ag Ping phao, ay kia Bs Yun pong 


| letters of credit.on its Branches 


ZAPCTAN” 


A 


NEOUM STRENG! 


SO se 


NEDERLANDSOBE HANDEL 
MAATSOBAPFIJ. ° : 
( NeruznLaxDs Trapixa Society.) — 


» Bstablished - 1924. 


A Capitat 
Paid-up 0 
Reserve Fund 
Special Reserve ...F. 22 
- Head ‘Office :—Ams nae 


‘The -Hague;—Rotterdam. 
Head. a ee cken jatavia. 


‘Bandjeomasin Macnasar’ 
= loeng. °° Meda 


ak Tes tip eats 
bap Waban den. 


Hanon F 
Sydney, New York; San Frateco, 


don Bankers :—The National 

Nincial “and ing Bank of England,’Ltd, * 
_, The Bank buys ‘ond ‘sells ‘and receives: ©.’ 
for’ collection- ‘Bille of Exchange, ‘issued... 

a 

respondents, in. "the East, on the: Contin. 
ent, in Great Britain, Amori¢o nnd Au 
trali « , and transacts 
every praeeie ae 


=. , GROSKAMP, “i 


Presidentiad 
ic of ee ot 


